**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** All right, well, welcome back, everybody. The first episode of the Early Days of Ethereum got quite good critical reception on LinkedIn and Twitter. I have a total of nine YouTube subscribers now, which I think is not so bad for a first video. And there have been a few people who reached out who we've known a long time who really appreciated the content. One of them called it essential viewing. So, anyway, we're back for another episode.

So, remind everybody, I'm Kieren James-Lubin, CEO of BlockApps. Uh, here with my co-founders. Victor, do you want to introduce yourself quickly? Oh, okay. I'm Victor Wong, co-founder and chief product officer of BlockApps. I'm Jim from OS0, Jim, CTO and founder, co-founder of BlockApps. All right, thank you.

And so, I believe where we left off—I can't watch video of myself, so I forget exactly how we ended the last episode—but I believe we pretty much ended with the Ethereum launch, and there were some things we left out even prior to launch that we can kind of backtrack to a little bit, and then go forward to all of the kind of after-launch activity. So, with that said, maybe I'll hand it to Victor to talk about the first consensus dAppathon, which was June 2015, I believe.

**[01:38] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, so that was the first actual hackathon building what, in those days, were known as dApps. I guess some people still call it, but that seems to have gone out of favor for blockchain applications. So, the first idea was to really try to build blockchain applications directly on Ethereum, and that was in the first ConsenSys office, which was a very small co-working space in Greenpoint, I think. I would say it was called Green Desks.

**[02:20] SPEAKER_01:** Green Desks, yeah. That's right. It's right next to the modern-day Domino Park, maybe a block away from there or so. Exactly. Yeah, that's right. And, of course, Domino Park did not exist at that time. In fact, Domino Park went up really quickly and took me by surprise. I like, looked up one day, and there was like a big, kind of well-manicured park there. Yeah, well, they kind of walled it off, and so it was just like—uh, I don't know, I thought it was like an abandoned site, and then one day all of a sudden the wall was gone, and there was a beautiful park there.

**[02:50] SPEAKER_00:** So at that event, which was, I think, two to three months before the actual launch of Ethereum, I will say the concepts were really interesting. People were coming up. And it was mostly, I think, interns that were interning at ConsenSys over that summer. And ConsenSys at this point was only like maybe 20 people at max, 20 or 30. Yeah, that's interesting. It was really, really small. And you know, some great concepts came up, but like even with the stuff we built, we realized pretty quickly that no one could build anything in a short period of time. Like it was just impossible. Very basic stuff like reading a variable off the blockchain was kind of impossible. Like you couldn't read the state off the blockchain and all this kind of stuff.

So, that kind of led into—yeah, like everything building in those days were incredibly hard. And that led into—so we decided at that event that at the launch of Ethereum, we were going to do a bigger hackathon. And that became the second consensus dAppathon, which coincided with the launch of Ethereum. And it was us, you know, the Java client, which I think was called Ether Camp at that time, and like other tools that were kind of combined together. But what was really interesting about that one was it was bigger. Like I think the first one we had like six participants; the other one we had like I think close to 30. And it introduced like a lot of ideas that would become more developed pretty quickly. Like what the winner was a game called Firework. It really had that element of tokenized gameplay. There was a decentralized social app, I think called TruStory or something, some something like that. And then there was like a traceability supply chain app. In those early days, that kind of all coincided with like the launch of Ethereum.

**[04:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, so okay, this—so you're talking about the second one, I'm talking about the second one. Yeah, the second one, also the offices had shifted, so we had our ConsenSys, which we were kind of working as a part of at that time, had moved to a much larger office in Bushwick, which is—I believe they still have a presence there, though they've gone mostly remote. I remember there was like a horse lineage app. Yeah, yeah, interesting. You know, and we ended up actually hiring a couple people who participated in the hackathon. But that one was open to externals, right? So that was the big difference. And it was quite well attended. The room, I think, never had the greatest air conditioning, but it was really quite hot in there, if I recall. And you think that one was like 24 hours, or it was two days? I can't—I think it was two days. And yeah, like the air conditioning thing.

**[06:02] SPEAKER_00:** So we moved into that space to have the hackathon. ConsenSys was expanding because they had outgrown that co-working space already. And so we moved into that space, which was a reasonably sized room—you could probably get 80 to 100 people in that room. But yes, the air conditioning was terrible, and we had to frantically—we only realized this after we got into the room, so we had to like frantically buy some and set them up.

**[06:30] SPEAKER_03:** Okay, I do have a memory of that.

**[06:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I don't know if you recall that. But yeah, we were like trying to get those air conditioning units in place before a ton of people showed up. Because yeah, like we were sweating when there were only like five people in the room.

**[06:44] SPEAKER_03:** These were the scrappy days of manually configuring air conditioning. I think the amount of furniture assembly that you do is a good proxy for how scrappy you are in your startup journey.

**[06:57] SPEAKER_00:** There was a lot of furniture. It was basically an empty room when we moved in. And I think we moved in there a day or two before the hackathon actually started. So we had to get everything up and running. And it was this to like sort of commemorate the launch, I think. Or was it like right before the launch? It was right—it actually, you know, if you recall at the time, we didn't know when the launch would be. Like the dates were always shifting, right? And we just said we kind of arbitrarily chose like we wanted to actually synchronize it with the launch, but because we couldn't know exactly when the launch was, and even when they declared the date, it was still a little bit vague. Like we're like, exactly what actually happened? So we—we have at some point had to arbitrarily choose the date, and they—they more or less—what was the right date? Like I think it was off by maybe a day or two.

**[07:55] SPEAKER_03:** Jim, I might have asked you this last episode, but I'll ask again. Do you remember one, trying to predict the launch, and could you explain how? And two, there was some complicated mechanism for how the launch would actually happen, because it's hard for a decentralized group to decide on a launch time. I can't remember that at all.

**[08:13] SPEAKER_01:** You were mentioning it in the last video, and I didn't remember this, but I don't doubt it. It sounds correct. You were saying we were looking through the Git commits at the time.

**[08:22] SPEAKER_03:** We were, yes. You made this plot. It was like commits by day, and as the commits—you extrapolated it for it. I think it probably got within a couple of days of the launch date. Okay, so I have to—yeah, I still don't know how they like set the clock on the first block, so to speak. Maybe we can dig this up. There was something they did, and we had probably in our DMs. I wish I thought to look between the first and second video to find the actual discussion that we had. Maybe the graph is in there. Yeah, yeah, that's very funny. The Slack is a treasure trove of interesting things.

All right, uh, so yeah, it launched. And I kind of felt like there was a sort of—and then what? Going on. You know, it took a little time for things to get going. And then you know, this it obviously it's been a smashing success, right? It's just sort of the reality of a new platform—you sort of get it out there, you see what people do, you learn from it. And it took a minute for the activity to kick in.

**[09:33] SPEAKER_01:** I remember a lot of people around us at the time had been buying a lot of presale Ether beforehand. And so the day it came out, I think they were expecting it to have a huge jump in value immediately. And when—like you know, a couple weeks had gone by, and it was only still like 20 cents an Ether. So I remember people around us were kind of like, some of the people there were like, "Oh, this thing was a flop. It's never gonna go anywhere." Yeah, yeah.

**[09:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, it's just psychologically. Yeah, the expectations were super high. There was this concept floating around ConsenSys of day-one dApps—like, you had to be ready right for the launch, because you know it was a land grab, and things were going to the moon. And you know, it turned out to—again, smashing success—but yeah, the price was like under a dollar for a little bit, and then around a dollar for like a while, I believe.

And I did want to mention, so I had to look this up. So the first ICO, whatever you want to call it, that was on Ethereum—obviously Ethereum did its own crowd sale—but it was like, you know, they took in Bitcoin, and there was it was something like 2,000 Ether to one Bitcoin at the time, which I believe at the time was like 20 or 30 cents. And then it had gone up to a dollar on launch, which is already a pretty good return, you know. But that is what it is.

The first ICO apparently was Augur. And I knew the Augur guys a little bit. I was digging through the CryptoEconomicon videos. I believe one or two of them presented or run panels at CryptoEconomicon. For folks who are listening to this, CryptoEconomicon was a conference that we had in January 2015 that involved a lot of the people who then—including Vitalik—and some of the other Ethereum folks, who subsequently created really big and interesting, mostly layer-one projects in the Ethereum space, but others as well. So the videos are actually up. I tweeted a couple of them, but there was—I think I created a YouTube channel like in 2015 and uploaded all those. I definitely remember getting them recorded. So check those out if that's of interest.

So Augur was the first, I guess, of the prediction markets platforms. There have since been a couple of new ones that have popped up that seem to be popular. There was also this sort of competing project called Truthcoin. And I was kind of confused about how the two related to each other. I think there was no formal relation, though. I remember meeting up with—getting Matt Liston, I met—who I checked his LinkedIn, he's been at a couple different places. So I think Augur—maybe we should look up who actually founded Augur. Jeremy Gardner, I—you know, I've known over the years. And he—I met him in San Francisco with Vitalik. Because Vitalik was staying at what was, at the time, the Crypto Castle. And you know, it's kind of what you would imagine, sort of like a co-working, co-living crypto space for—and not everyone there was working on Augur; they're all working on different things. It's kind of a common thing to do.

Well, I think if you hear the term "Crypto Castle" now, people would imagine an actual castle. You know what you're describing, which is more like a dormitory. Yes, it was more like a dorm. I mean, it was a nice, little house. I think I can't remember; it might have been like adjacent to the Mission in San Francisco. And so Vitalik would stay there sometimes. Joey Krug, I've probably met two or three times over the years. I'm not even sure if I ever met Jack Peterson. So those are the three founders of Augur.

So I guess they were good friends with Vitalik, or just sort of had realized early on that it would be easier to develop on Ethereum than it would be to try to do something with Bitcoin, which was—kind of the predominant suggestion at the time. But they did the first on Ethereum crowd fund, like I guess right after launch. The Wikipedia is saying August 2015, which is really, really early. I don't know if I believe this Wikipedia page, but it says soon after the platform launched, users had created death pools or assassination markets on famous people. So back in 2015, every discussion about blockchain eventually led both to prediction markets, and then this sort of uncensored ability—you can't shut it down would lead then to assassination markets. Assassination markets being you predict you bet on the day someone dies, you know, and then someone takes the other side of that bet. Justin Delacruz—kills them and collects on it. So apparently they were actually created on Augur, according to this Wikipedia page. I'm yeah, I have to look into that. I'm a little bit dubious. But, in any case.

Justin Delacruz—I guess Augur then blazed the trail, sort of after Ethereum did, with a successful crowd sale. Um, for the wave of ICOs that came later. But yeah, so Truthcoin was also this competing project. I just remember meeting up with Matt at like a Berkeley coffee shop and talking about both Augur and Truthcoin had some sort of—David Price—you know, machine learning, slightly like computer science, graph-theoretic way of like determining what the truth was. So like you take a bunch of votes from a bunch of people, but then determine the principal components of how the voting is, and extract the truth from there. It was—I mean, it was—I don't know, it sounded like very high-end math, mechanistic. Which it was very common of the space—every like, you know, crypto has a lot of these mathematician types who like kind of came in and wanted to create like really complicated schemes and mechanisms, all that sort of stuff that had provable theoretical properties for something interesting about—you know, this space. But yeah, I'm—so—so they must have launched it like right away. That's very interesting. I remember us talking to them at some point, and they were developing that. They did want to be a day-one dApp. I remember. And they were—I think the platform went live 2018; the Wikipedia page says. But they did the crowd sale like basically right away, right? Right.

So should we go on to DevCon 1, which I guess I can talk about? So kind of concurrently, while all this is happening, we started to work a bunch. So ConsenSys had a business development team—a little bit of a mix, marketing, BD, actual sales, you know, etc.—that was starting to generate interest from big companies in the technology. So you know, for us ourselves, we definitely worked with companies far more than sort of the crypto public for you know, most of the history of the company. We still don't really work with the crypto public today. But you know, ConsenSys was kind of conflicted on this front. So they had sort of pure blockchain native projects, and eventually in big numbers. They also had an enterprise arm, which is really more consulting-oriented, although they kind of ended up sort of backfilling what they saw demand for with products at times. But in any case, the BD folks were reaching out to everybody, and they actually got a fair bit of interest from Microsoft. And I think Microsoft had already been kind of watching the Ethereum revolution and seeing it as something interesting, the new front of the cloud war, perhaps. And so you know, we got to working with them. And so maybe for the technical part of this, I could kind of transition. But basically, so ConsenSys had a couple preferred projects which had the low-level—I mean like the blockchain client itself, infrastructure that could be deployed on cloud platforms. And maybe—yeah, so that ended up being basically us and the Java folks. Vic, do you want to take any? I think you were saying before.

**[18:33] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, sure. So they were interested in kind of being able to deploy one of the clients that we had. We had the Haskell client and then the Java folks. They were actually more interested in the Java folks. Wait, I should take a step back here. Just mentioning that DevCon 1 almost didn't happen, if you recall, right? Because it was in this low period, and the Ethereum Foundation was kind of running out of money. Because you know, this is why the launch had to happen when it happened. And in that low period, they were like, you know, still trying to preserve a lot of cash, and so it almost didn't happen. And I remember like a lot of people inside ConsenSys were like, no, like we have to bring this to kind of bring this up and make an event out of this. You know, like I think Andrew Keys was leading the charge in that, really saying like, "We got to do this." And then this Microsoft thing kind of bundled into that, right? So it was us and the Java client, and my background was like in my previous company, I had tried to work with Microsoft and building apps like when they had their first mobile platform. And it took me like six months to get a meeting, and I had a cousin who was like a VP at Microsoft. So it was amazing to me that they were just coming to us, and they wanted to launch something with us in two months.

And I think at that point, we decided, okay, this is a huge opportunity. We're going to drop everything and focus on that launch, which turned out to be launching Blockchain as a Service. But oddly enough, the Java guys started, and then they just kind of faded away. They weren't really interested in kind of pursuing it. They just had other things going on. So we went over it. So by the time DevCon 1 happened, the only thing that was working was our client. It was ready on the cloud. You could download it, and you could start building on it right away. And then remember, we started to get downloads immediately. People started to get people using it immediately.

But that's also, in that run up, that was when we realized—when Microsoft realized—if we're going to make this as a developer tool, it can't connect to the public Ethereum network, because people wouldn't be able to get Ether. Like it was quite hard to get Ether at that point; there weren't really that many exchanges or anything to go on. So we were—that's kind of how we kind of created like private Ethereum, you know, and private enterprise—what became known as private, if they were more enterprise-oriented.

**[21:22] SPEAKER_03:** That kind of all led up to the launch itself in London. Um, when we showed up with Microsoft, I think people were shocked that Microsoft was into it. You know, so—uh, I just looked that up and didn't have in our little outline, but I—I had forgotten about this. So I think Coinbase listed Ether like mid-2016. Right? I'm seeing May 24th, 2016.

**[21:47] SPEAKER_00:** So—and I guess—like Kraken was the popular exchange at the time. You know, I think it was Poloniex. I'm sorry, you're right. Poloniex still exists. And I just remember there was like the chat function on Poloniex, and like, man, that was like crazy. Like that was Discord before there was Discord.

**[22:08] SPEAKER_03:** Oh, wait, hold on—Circle bought it, maybe, and then it seems to have shut it down. Anyway, I'm confused by all this. But yeah, so it was sketchy for sure. It was like a whale chat box. I never really used it, but I would like to see it on people's computers and all that sort of thing. It was—it was difficult to get it in and out of Ether for a while. Jim, are you gonna say something?

**[22:33] SPEAKER_01:** I'm just kind of remembering back then. Remind me, because I'm sort of like, not sure if I've got this straight, but I think maybe you're downplaying the Java thing a little bit. I think if I remember right, Microsoft guys were pretty mad at that time. Am I misremembering that?

**[22:49] SPEAKER_00:** No, you're not. Well, the thing is they really wanted something that they could pitch to companies. And you know, like—um, just you know, companies use Java, right? So they were like really—and um, so like when we kind of like we're like, we just dropped everything and just focused on that. And I remember like we sort of had the internal mantra like we gotta get on stage and be able to write code in like 30 seconds. Like that was our internal—something. They had pre-announced something or something, and then the Java guys sort of disappeared or something. Yeah, they preannounced that, you know, they were going to show like the Java client and the Haskell client. And we were like this—we were like the runner-up. Like they were like, I think they kind of accepted us because we were willing to work really hard. And the Java guys—got like, I think they knew that they needed a backup.

**[23:50] SPEAKER_01:** The other thing I—I remember about Microsoft is that there was a little bit of like, um, tension within there because they were just launching Azure at that time.

**[24:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[24:00] SPEAKER_01:** And at the same time, they had blockchain people, and the blockchain people really wanted to focus on the blockchain side of it. And the Azure people wanted to like use this as a way to promote the new platform. So there was always a little bit of friction within.

**[24:15] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean like I remember like I think the—you know, Marley Gray was really driving those efforts inside Microsoft at the time. And um, like they were like really, really pushing it. And I remember like they were trying to get people in the room to talk to us, and some of them weren't even—I mean, it was probably like you said, they were launching Azure. So that's a huge project. I'm sure they were just busy with other stuff. But we spent a lot of time in their New York office. I remember we were like going there all the time.

**[24:46] SPEAKER_03:** I'm seeing the Azure launches 2010. I checked it, but it did feel much more nascent than it is today. Like Amazon got out, AWS got out there and like took the whole market. And then Azure was kind of like in a catch-up mode, but I think it might've even like exceeded AWS revenues at some point.

**[25:04] SPEAKER_01:** They were running around one of the conferences. I can't