Here's the cleaned transcript with all critical content preserved:

**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** All right, well welcome back everybody. The first episode of The Early Days of Ethereum actually got quite good critical reception on LinkedIn and Twitter. I have a total of nine YouTube subscribers now which I think is not so bad for a first video. There have been a few people who reached out who we've known a long time who really appreciated the content. One of them called it essential viewing. So anyway, we're back for another episode. Remind everybody I'm Kieren James-Lubin, CEO of BlockApps. Here with my co-founders. Victor, do you want to introduce yourself quickly?

**[00:38] SPEAKER_00:** Oh okay. I'm Victor Wong, co-founder and chief product officer of BlockApps.

**[00:42] SPEAKER_01:** I'm James from OSD Hour, Jim, CTO and founder, co-founder of BlockApps.

**[00:47] SPEAKER_03:** All right thank you. I believe where we left off... I can't watch video of myself so I forget exactly how we ended the last episode but I believe we pretty much ended with the Ethereum launch and there were some things we left out even prior to launch that we can backtrack to a little bit and then go forward to all of the after launch activity. With that said maybe I'll hand it to Victor to talk about the first Consensus Dappathon which was June 2015 I believe.

**[01:38] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah so that was I think the first actual hackathon building what in those days were known as dapps, I guess some people still call it that but that seems to go now in favor with blockchain applications. The first idea was to really try to build blockchain applications directly on Ethereum and that was in the first Consensus office which was a very small co-working space in Greenpoint. It was called Green Desks maybe.

**[02:20] SPEAKER_01:** Green Dust yeah that's right. It's right next to the modern day Domino Park maybe a block away from there or so exactly yeah that's right. Domino Park did not exist at that time. In fact Domino Park went up really quickly and took me by surprise. I looked up one day and there was a big kind of well manicured park there.

**[02:50] SPEAKER_00:** So at that event, which was I think two to three months before the actual launch of Ethereum, the concepts were really interesting. People were coming up with ideas. It was mostly interns that were interning at ConsenSys over that summer. ConsenSys at this point was only maybe 20 people at max. Some great concepts came up but even with the stuff we built we realized pretty quickly that no one could build anything in a short period of time. Very basic stuff like reading a variable off the blockchain was kind of impossible. You couldn't read the state off the blockchain and all this kind of stuff. Everything building in those days were incredibly hard. That led into us deciding at that event we were going to do a bigger hackathon at the launch of Ethereum. That became the second Consensus Dappathon which coincided with the launch of Ethereum. It was us, the Java client which I think was called Ether Camp at that time, and other tools that were combined together. What was really interesting about that one was it was bigger. The first one we had like six participants, the other one we had close to 30. It introduced a lot of ideas that would become more developed pretty quickly. The winner was a game fire app that had that element of tokenized gameplay. There was a decentralized social app I think called Truther or something like that. Then there was a traceability supply chain app in those early days and that all coincided with the launch of Ethereum.

**[04:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah so okay in this second one, the offices had shifted. Our ConsenSys which we were kind of working as a part of at that time had moved to a much larger office in Bushwick which I believe they still have a presence there though they've gone mostly remote. I remember there was like a horse lineage app. We ended up actually hiring a couple people who participated in the hackathon but that one was open to externals so that was the big difference. It actually was quite well attended. The room I think never had the greatest air conditioning but it was really quite hot in there if I recall. You think that one was like 24 hours or it was two days?

**[06:02] SPEAKER_00:** So we moved into that space to have the hackathon. ConsenSys was playing because they had outgrown that co-working space already. We moved into that space which was a reasonably sized room. You could probably get 80 to 100 people in that room but the air conditioning was terrible. We had to frantically buy some and set them up. We only realized this after we got into the room.

**[06:30] SPEAKER_03:** Okay, I do have a memory of that.

**[06:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, we were trying to get those air conditioning units in place before a ton of people showed up. We were sweating when there were only like five people in the room.

**[06:44] SPEAKER_03:** These were the scrappy days in manually configuring air conditioning. I think the amount of furniture assembly that you do is a good proxy for how scrappy you are in your startup journey.

**[06:57] SPEAKER_00:** There was a lot of furniture. It was basically an empty room when we moved in there. We moved in there a day or two before the hackathon actually started so we had to get everything up and running. It was to commemorate the launch I think or was it right before the launch? If you recall at the time we didn't know when the launch would be. The dates were always shifting. We kind of arbitrarily chose we wanted to synchronize it with the launch but because we couldn't know exactly when the launch was and even when they declared the date it was still a little bit vague. We had to arbitrarily choose the date and they more or less what was the right date. I think it was off by maybe a day or two.

**[07:55] SPEAKER_03:** Jim, I might have asked you this last episode, but I'll ask again. Do you remember trying to predict the launch and could you explain how? And two, there was some complicated mechanism for how the launch would actually happen because it's hard for a decentralized group to decide on a launch time.

**[08:13] SPEAKER_01:** You were mentioning it in the last video and I didn't remember this, but I don't doubt it. It sounds correct. You were saying we were looking through the Git commits at the time.

**[08:22] SPEAKER_03:** We were yes. You made this plot. It was like commits by day, and as the commits, and you extrapolated it. I think it probably got within a couple of days of the launch date. Okay so I have to yeah I still don't know how they set the clock on the first block so to speak. Maybe we can dig this up. There was something they did and that we had probably in our DMs. I wish I thought to look between the first and second video to find the actual discussion that we had maybe the graph is in there.

**[08:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah yeah that's very funny. The Slack is the treasure trove of interesting things.

**[08:54] SPEAKER_03:** All right so it launched and I kind of felt like there was a sort of and then what going on. It took a little time for things to get going and then it obviously has been a smashing success. The reality of a new platform is you sort of get it out there. You see what people do, you learn from it. It took a minute for the activity to kick in.

**[09:33] SPEAKER_01:** I remember a lot of people around us at the time had been buying a lot of presale Ether beforehand. The day it came out, I think they were expecting it to have a huge jump in value immediately. When a couple weeks had gone by and it was still like 20 cents in Ether, people around us were kind of like oh this thing was a flop it's never gonna go anywhere.

**[09:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah psychologically the expectations were super high. There was this concept floating on ConsenSys of day one dapps. I had to be ready right for the launch because it was a land grab and things were going to the moon. It turned out to not quite obviously again smashing success but the price was like under a dollar for a little bit and then around a dollar for a while I believe. I did want to mention so the first ICO whatever you want to call it that was on Ethereum obviously Ethereum did its own crowd sale. They took in Bitcoin and there was something like two thousand Ether to one Bitcoin at the time which I believe at the time was like 20 or 30 cents and then it had gone up to a dollar on launch which is already a pretty good return. The first ICO apparently was Augur. I knew the Augur guys a little bit. I was digging through the CryptoEconomicon videos. I believe one or two of them presented or run panels at CryptoEconomicon. For folks who are listening to this, CryptoEconomicon was a conference that we had in January 2015 that involved a lot of the people who then including Vitalik and some of the other Ethereum folks subsequently created really big and interesting mostly layer one projects in the Ethereum space but others as well. The videos are actually up. I tweeted a couple of them, but there was apparently I think I created a YouTube channel like in 2015 and uploaded all those. I definitely remember getting them recorded. So check those out if that's of interest. So Augur was the first of the prediction markets platforms. There have since been a couple of new ones that have popped up that seem to be popular. There was also this sort of competing project called Truthcoin. I was kind of confused about how the two related to each other. I think there was no formal relation though I remember meeting Matt Liston who I checked his LinkedIn he's been at a couple different places. So Augur maybe we should look up who actually founded Augur. Jeremy Gardner I've known over the years. I met him in San Francisco with Vitalik because Vitalik was staying at what was at the time the Crypto Castle. It's kind of what you would imagine sort of like a co-working co-living crypto space. Not everyone there was working on Augur they're all working on different things. It's kind of common thing to do.

**[12:50] SPEAKER_01:** I think if you hear the term Crypto Castle now people would imagine an actual Castle. What you're describing is more like a dormitory.

**[12:57] SPEAKER_03:** It was more like a dorm. I mean it was a nice little house I think. It might have been like adjacent to the mission in San Francisco. Vitalik would stay there sometimes. Joey Krug, I've probably met two or three times over the years. I'm not even sure if I ever met Jack Peterson. So those are the three founders of Augur. I guess they were good friends with Vitalik or just sort of had realized early on that it would be easier to develop on Ethereum than it would be to try to do something with Bitcoin, which was kind of the predominant suggestion at the time. They did the first on Ethereum crowdfund. Looking at the Wikipedia right now, soon after the platform launched users had created the death pools or assassination markets on famous people. Back in 2015 every discussion about blockchain eventually led both to prediction markets, and then this sort of uncensored ability. You can't shut it down would lead then to assassination markets. Assassination markets being you predict you bet on the day someone dies, and then someone takes the other side of that bet. Apparently there actually were assassination markets created on Augur according to this Wikipedia page. I'm a little bit dubious but in any case. Augur then blazed the trail sort of after Ethereum did with a successful crowd sale for the wave of ICOs that came later. Truthcoin was also this competing project. I remember meeting up with Matt at a Berkeley coffee shop and talking about both Augur and Truthcoin. Truthcoin had some sort of machine learning slightly like computer science graph theoretic way of determining what the truth was. You take a bunch of votes from a bunch of people, but then determine the principal components of how the voting is and extract the truth from there. It sounded like very high end math mechanistic which was very common of the space. The crypto has a lot of these mathematician types who wanted to create really complicated schemes and mechanisms that had provable theoretical properties for something interesting about this space. They must have launched it right away. The Wikipedia page says the platform went live 2018 but they did the crowd sale basically right away.

**[15:50] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[15:51] SPEAKER_03:** Should we go on to DevCon 1, which I guess I can talk about? So kind of concurrently, while all this is happening, we started to work a bunch. ConsenSys had a business development team, a little bit of a mix marketing BD actual sales etc that was starting to generate interest from big companies in the technology. For us ourselves we definitely worked with companies far more than the crypto public for most of the history of the company. Still don't really work with the crypto public today. ConsenSys was kind of conflicted on this front. They had pure blockchain native projects, and eventually in big numbers. They also had an enterprise arm which is really more consulting oriented, although they kind of ended up backfilling what they saw demand for with products at times. The BD folks were reaching out to everybody, and they actually got a fair bit of interest from Microsoft. Microsoft had already been watching the Ethereum revolution and seeing it as something interesting, the new front of the cloud war perhaps. We got to working with them. ConsenSys had a couple preferred projects which had the low level infrastructure that could be deployed on cloud platforms. That ended up being basically us and the Java folks. Vic, do you want to take any?

**[18:33] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, sure. They were interested in being able to deploy one of the clients that we had. We had the Haskell client and then the Java folks. They were actually more interested in the Java folks. I should take a step back here. Just mentioning that DevCon 1 almost didn't happen if you recall right? Because it was in this low period and the Ethereum Foundation was running out of money. This is why the launch had to happen when it happened. In that low period they were trying to preserve a lot of cash so it almost didn't happen. I remember a lot of people inside ConsenSys were saying no we have to bring this up and make an event out of this. Andrew Keys was leading the charge really saying we got to do this. Then this Microsoft thing kind of bundled into that. It was us and the Java client. My background was in my previous company I had tried to work with Microsoft building apps when they had their first mobile platform and it took me six months to get a meeting. I had a cousin who was a VP at Microsoft. It was amazing to me that they were just coming to us and wanted to launch something with us in two months. At that point, we decided this is a huge opportunity. We're going to drop everything and focus on that launch, which turned out to be launching blockchain as a service. Oddly enough, the Java guys started, and then they just kind of faded away. They weren't really interested in pursuing it. They just had other things going on. So we went over it. By the time DevCon 1 happened, the only thing that was working was our client. It was ready on the cloud. You could download it, and you could start building on it right away. We started to get downloads immediately. People started using it immediately. In that run up, that was when we realized, when Microsoft realized, if we're going to make this as a developer tool, it can't connect to the public Ethereum network because people wouldn't be able to get Ether. It was quite hard to get Ether at that point. There weren't really that many exchanges. That's kind of how we created private Ethereum and private Enterprise what became known as private Ethereum.

**[21:22] SPEAKER_03:** That all led up and then the launch itself in London. When we got up with Microsoft I think people were shocked that Microsoft was into it. I just looked that up and didn't have in our little outline but I had forgotten about this. Coinbase listed Ether mid 2016 right? May 24th 2016.

**[21:47] SPEAKER_00:** Kraken was the popular exchange at the time. I think it was Poloniex. Poloniex still exists. I remember there was the chat function on Poloniex and man that was crazy. That was Discord before there was Discord.

**[22:08] SPEAKER_03:** Wait hold on Circle bought it maybe and then it seems to have shut it down anyway I'm confused by all this but yeah it was sketchy for sure. It was like a whale chat box. I never really used it but I would see it on people's computers. It was difficult to get it in and out of Ether for a while. Jim are you gonna say something?

**[22:33] SPEAKER_01:** I'm just kind of remembering back then. Remind me, because I'm not sure if I've got this straight, but I think maybe you're downplaying the Java thing a little bit. I think Microsoft guys were pretty mad at that time. Am I misremembering that?

**[22:49] SPEAKER_00:** No, you're not. They really wanted something that they could pitch to companies. Companies use Java so they were really into that. When we kind of dropped everything and just focused on that, I remember we had the internal mantra we gotta get on stage and be able to write a dapp in 30 seconds. That was our internal magic. They had pre-announced something and then the Java guys sort of disappeared. They preannounced that they were going to show the Java client and the Haskell client. We were like the runner up. I think they accepted us because we were willing to work really hard. The Java guys knew that they needed a backup.

**[23:50] SPEAKER_01:** The other thing I remember about Microsoft is that there was a little bit of tension within because they were just launching Azure at that time. At the same time they had blockchain people and the blockchain people really wanted to focus on the blockchain side. The Azure people wanted to use this as a way to promote the new platform. So there was always a little bit of friction within.

**[24:15] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I remember Marley Gray was really driving those efforts inside Microsoft at the time. They were really pushing it. They were trying to get people in the room to talk to us and some of them weren't even interested. It was probably like you said, they were launching Azure. That's a huge project. I'm sure they were busy with other stuff. We spent a lot of time in their New York office. We were going there all the time.

**[24:46] SPEAKER_03:** I'm seeing the Azure launches 2010. I checked it, but it did feel much more nascent than it is today. Amazon got out, AWS got out there and took the whole market. Azure was in a catch-up mode, but I think it might've exceeded AWS revenues at some point.

**[25:04] SPEAKER_01:** They were running around one of the conferences handing out free passes to everyone.

**[25:11] SPEAKER_00:** It was that conference, DevCon 1.

**[25:14] SPEAKER_03:** Okay.

**[25:14] SPEAKER_00:** They were handing it out and that's why they wanted to make sure we were on their Marketplace. They could hand out this free pass and you could get our client up and running and start building something right away. That was a revelation to a lot of people. I remember dozens of companies were starting in that first week. Their devious plan worked on us. We grabbed a whole bunch of free passes and then a year later we were giving them ten thousand dollars a month to stay on it. It definitely works. I don't know if you remember the day after the Microsoft announcement there was a spike in the price and we were like...

**[26:02] SPEAKER_03:** I think we just did the price. You mean the Microsoft stock price?

**[26:05] SPEAKER_00:** No no no I meant the Ethereum price.

**[26:07] SPEAKER_03:** I think it was both actually. I have memory of the Microsoft stock price slightly ticking. I think they both went up and we were like hey I think we actually did that. Ether went from 20 cents to 30 cents.

**[26:23] SPEAKER_00:** No I think it actually went significantly up. I think it might have doubled for a day or something like that. 20 cents to 40 cents.

**[26:34] SPEAKER_03:** Maybe I think it was like a dollar to a dollar 80. I don't remember the price. Check it out but it's hard to see. The price range is so small now. Okay so DevCon's like December right? Yeah something like that. It's around a dollar. There it is see where it starts taking up. I think we definitely got calls related to the Microsoft announcement into January for sure. So we probably had something to do with it. You never know really what's causing price action.

**[27:12] SPEAKER_01:** I'm joking, but I just remember the mentality within was that until it was up to $20, people thought it was a flop. Somehow when it hit $20, everybody around me all of a sudden got really excited then.

**[27:25] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. The average person buys high, sells low. That's pretty successful at 20. And it was still low. Okay, so moving along, kind of on the back of the enterprise announcement, the Microsoft announcement, we started to get customers. A lot of it was enterprises that were fairly early in their journey and wanted just some advice on blockchain technology. Some of them were actually ready to implement something. Vic, you took a whole lot of phone calls.

**[28:01] SPEAKER_00:** Oh man yeah.

**[28:02] SPEAKER_03:** Do you want to comment on any of that?

**[28:05] SPEAKER_00:** It was kind of amazing. Now the numbers in relative size seem pretty small but in the first couple months we went from zero to dozens of companies calling us. The amazing thing was they had actually tried our software. They had played around. I remember over and over people were saying we've been working on a blockchain project for the last two years and haven't been able to build anything and now we can do something. We were getting them from financial companies and resource company and mining companies. It was all across the spectrum of people trying things because I don't think they really knew what they wanted to do but they wanted an easy way to get in and for the first time they had it.

**[29:02] SPEAKER_03:** Gotcha. Do you remember? I believe I'm trying to keep this straight. The project Slockit was sort of being marketed at DevCon 1, but I believe it's a lot of the same people as the DAO. Do you remember like I think they presented but I'm having a hard time keeping it straight.

**[29:26] SPEAKER_00:** Slockit was this sort of IoT kind of strange thing that you could unlock a lock, but it was structured around what actually became the DAO. They practically created a DAO in order to their own this lock and then they realized well we don't actually need the lock. The DAO is the most important thing and the actual lock thing is not that interesting. It was 100 the same people. They were introducing both ideas at the same time.

**[30:05] SPEAKER_03:** So let me transition into the DAO part. Victor, what was the DAO?

**[30:14] SPEAKER_00:** The DAO was basically an investment fund on the Ethereum blockchain. People would put money into this contract and this contract would fund different projects. It started to consume a huge amount of the overall Ether supply. I think it was as high as like 20 or 25 percent of the entire Ether supply got locked up into this contract.

**[30:51] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I'm looking on Wikipedia right now. The part of the reason I thought of it in this sequence is looking at the price action. Part of it is that the supply, the extant Ether supply went down because as of May 2016, the DAO had attracted nearly 14% of all Ether tokens issued to date. They ran a crowd sale and that crowd sale raised $34 million by May 10th 2016. More than 50 by May 12th over 100 by May 15th. Sometimes the dynamics of these ICOs is crazy. One thing that blockchain seems to do that's really difficult with other technologies is to have this large scale collaboration and in this case to pool capital. There was some virality going on. People are talking about the DAO and you see this enormous movement of funds overnight. They end up holding by May 21st, 2016, over $150 million in Ether from over 10,000 people, about 14% of all Ether tokens issued at that time. It was really fast. It took everybody by surprise. I remember I had a meeting that the enterprise folks at ConsenSys had set up with people at BBVA. I'm forgetting last names but I think it was like Scarlett and Carlos. Vic you weren't in town. They were just like it caught everyone's attention. It was crazy. We were talking about operational use cases for the bank but there was a sense that this is where the future is. The money just moved. There were no heavy subscription agreements and all that. It was also a cautionary tale of what was to come over the next couple years. By June, people discovered that you could exploit the DAO to siphon off the funds. Do you remember anything about that?

**[33:41] SPEAKER_00:** So you had all the supply locked into this contract. The hack was there was a flaw in the contract logic, and because it's immutable, the smart contract couldn't be changed. There was a massive race between the people trying to extract the money out of the contract and the people who worked on the DAO itself. The people who were successful at extracting the money pulled out a lot of it. A huge amount of the value they were able to pull out. The ironic thing was that it got pulled out and put into an account and everyone knew where it went because everything on the blockchain is completely transparent but no one could do anything about it. They couldn't take the money out. The money was just sitting there basically. It got stolen and left on the side of the street or something and no one knew what to do.

**[34:54] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. Looking back on it, it blew up and it caused the creation. At this time we had to implement in our software a hard fork debate. It's pretty early, less than a year after Ethereum launched. Probably a lot of the big Ether holders participated in this. They've lost significant funds. The question was do you make people whole or do you stick true to the absolute immutability in the classic blockchain sense where it's totally buyer beware. Shouldn't have put your Ether in this contract if you weren't prepared to lose it. The Ethereum community elected to forcibly revert the funds. There's just like a credit as of a certain block number so everyone got their funds back. Jim had to code it maybe I helped a little bit. I was not coding anymore at this point. Then Ethereum Classic was the hard line we're sticking to immutability. Ethereum Classic got some backers, maybe famously Barry Silbert was in their Ethereum Classic, maybe still is. Eventually it had a hard fork itself when some issue was discovered with the protocol. Is that correct?

**[38:07] SPEAKER_00:** I don't know if it was a hard fork or a soft fork but there have been debates inside the Ethereum Classic community on how to implement different changes into the protocol. Bob Summerwill of the Ethereum Classic Collective knows more about this stuff than I do.

**[38:35] SPEAKER_03:** Interesting maybe I could follow up on exactly how this went down. Ethereum Classic maybe was mining forever philosophically whereas Ethereum switched over to proof of stake like a year ago. I just googled it. Here's a June 28th Cointelegraph article that says Ethereum Classic devs announced upcoming hard fork. They at least subsequently did some amount of hard forking. Funny thing also when this hard fork happens it's a silly comment from someone fairly compliance focused. What's the tax treatment of a hard fork? You had some tokens on one chain and then they morph and now you have tokens on both chains. It's like airdrops too or like ordinary income which means whether or not you wanted those hard fork coins you probably have to pay taxes on them if you can access and liquidate them but you have to pay them whether or not you liquidate. It's not just capital gains. Quite a strange test of our system that we've seen with blockchain because they fork all the time. There's lots of airdrops etc you might not even be aware. All right so that was the DAO. It's crazy like I still can't believe this happened and it's happened way bigger and differently later. It was quite a moment.

**[40:28] SPEAKER_00:** I looked up the current price and in current dollars it would be roughly the equivalent of 30 billion dollars if you think about it. It'd be huge because we were so small at the time.

**[40:46] SPEAKER_03:** Okay I want to take you to the second CoinDesk Consensus hackathon. Again hand it to Victor for everything you recall. We have some pictures from that time. I found it from CoinDesk. What I remember of it is that...

**[41:10] SPEAKER_00:** It was one of the first CoinDesk Consensus events which subsequently became huge. They had two events around it. One was a hackathon which we were part of. We were one of the main platforms that was participating in it. Then there was the event itself which was at the Ritz. Both events were in Times Square. The hackathon came first at Microsoft in Times Square and then the event was a couple blocks away in the hotel. During the hackathon we were in all these different conference rooms. There was early Hyperledger and some other clients that were not Ethereum based. There was a pretty good turnout. Over 100 people showed up. Our room got so crowded we had to co-opt another boardroom. I think we got a significant majority of the developers building stuff on our platform which was super exciting. Walking by the rooms that Hyperledger had or the other client had, there weren't very many people in there. The people that were in there were people who were working for them. That was really exciting though at the end we didn't win. At least someone building on our stack didn't win because the winner was actually something that was getting built way before the hackathon existed which was technically against the rules but we didn't hold anyone.

**[43:50] SPEAKER_03:** Victor asserts if we lost it's because someone else cheated.

**[43:54] SPEAKER_00:** That's how we feel. That's at least how I felt at the time whether or not that's completely true. The memory is subjective. The rest of the conference was the first shiny big blockchain conference. Vitalik spoke. They launched the first Hyperledger app there. There was a bunch of activity. It was an interesting combination because most other conferences like DevCon are really developer focused but this you could really see businesses becoming interested. The thing I most remember is we were pulled into a room at one point. In the room was the head of Hyperledger, John Wolpert, and Vitalik. They said hey we heard you guys have an enterprise-ready version of Ethereum that can switch between the public net and private blockchains. Wolpert at the time said my engineers claim that this is completely impossible. Jim I think you showed a photo of your laptop and said here it is this is how it works and you can start building. There was a conversation going back and forth between Wolpert and Vitalik about Hyperledger supporting Ethereum. It ended with Vitalik always wears an Ethereum t-shirt and Wolpert is about three sizes larger than Vitalik.

**[45:32] SPEAKER_03:** Vitalik is very tall. If they had a bench press competition, there would be a big differentiation between what John could bench and what Vitalik could bench.

**[45:49] SPEAKER_00:** John is not unfit. He's just much larger. Vitalik is still quite skinny. John was three sizes before. Andrew Keys pointed to the t-shirt and said Vitalik take that shirt off and give it to John because he was about to walk on stage. It was like a muscle shirt on him. So tight like a compression shirt. He went on stage and people were shocked. What's going on? This is the head of Hyperledger wearing an Ethereum t-shirt. That led to Hyperledger actually supporting Ethereum type clients.

**[46:38] SPEAKER_03:** Talking to John occasionally over the years he went on to join ConsenSys later. I don't know what he's up to today. He had a sense of not wanting to be on the wrong side of history. He was always talking about IBM's embrace of Linux instead of pushing hard on its own operating system. They put a ton of open source software development in Linux and it helped them have something to run on their mainframes which is still a big business today. He was always debating should we do our own thing or go the Ethereum way. This was the best illustration of that conflict. IBM was formidable for a while and scary as a competitor. I don't hear much blockchain noise out of them anymore. They've shifted resources.

**[47:57] SPEAKER_00:** By the way I found the picture from that first hackathon. This is off the CoinDesk. Here's the picture at the mic. This was one of the rooms and we had to co-op another room. This was very early in the process.

**[48:15] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah I remember this one.

**[48:18] SPEAKER_00:** Here I am sitting in the middle of it. It grew really rapidly.

**[48:30] SPEAKER_03:** All righty. Close to rounding up here. Things are moving along. 2016 there's organic momentum. We hired a lot of people. Our software has been used in enterprise projects. We're ramping up headcounts. DevCon 2 is September 2016 in Shanghai. I remember dealing with all the Visa stuff. Thankfully ConsenSys dealt with that. We were doing a capital raise, our first seed-ish one at that time. It felt like a coming out party. What do you guys recall? What are some impressions from DevCon 2?

**[49:46] SPEAKER_01:** There was some big attack on Ethereum. I'm trying to remember the details but I remember in the morning lots of stuff was happening on the business front. Waking up and suddenly I was just completely involved digging in with the Haskell client and figuring out what was going on and what changes we had to make.

**[50:08] SPEAKER_03:** I remember it was transactions that slowed the clients down being created. Due to the way the data structures work it was hard to make them process fast. I can't recall but it was funny that was right around that time.

**[50:35] SPEAKER_01:** The funny thing I remember is the EEA was formed during that conference. Victor somehow in the morning grabbed me and said I've got all these meetings and I'd like you to come along too. I had my laptop and was trying to dig into the tech with all the stuff going on. I sat in the corner in a coffee shop programming all day. At the end of the day I asked what were all those meetings and Victor essentially said oh yeah we just formed the EEA.

**[51:09] SPEAKER_00:** It was Jeremy Miller who later became chief of staff for ConsenSys who drove that. There had been a previous attempt by Matt Spoke to create some group of enterprises to work together on standards that never went anywhere. Matt was at Deloitte at the time. Deloitte was early into blockchain. They were at DevCon1 building up a practice ironically in the Toronto office. They were quite early and knowledgeable. At some point they started effectively a consortium of companies who want to use Ethereum. There was us working with Microsoft happening organically. We realized companies needed to collaborate to work together. Jeremy Miller thought what's happening now isn't working we gotta get proper structure. It was just an announcement on the Ethereum Foundation site but no one was driving it. During that day we aggregated a bunch of people in that coffee shop. It was literally happening beside you. Jeremy, John Whelan from Santander, Matt Spoke came in, Marley came in, Lali, James Laszlo came in. We were all saying we need this organization. It was all happening at the Starbucks outside the conference center. By the end of the day we said yes we're going to form this group that eventually became the EEA.

**[53:18] SPEAKER_03:** I want to add some peripheral details. We get to Shanghai. You get this card jet lag. It's a hefty flight. The card says something like aliens