**[00:00] SPEAKER_04:** all right well welcome back everybody um the first episode of the early days of ethereum actually got quite good critical reception on linkedin in twitter i have a total of nine youtube subscribers now which i think is not so bad for a first video um And there have been a few people who reached out who we've known a long time who really appreciated the content. One of them called it, you know, essential viewing. So anyway, we're back for another episode. So, remind everybody, I'm Kieran James Leuven, CEO of BlockApps, here with my co-founders. Victor, do you want to introduce yourself quickly? Oh, okay. I'm Victor Wong, co-founder and chief product officer of BlockApps. I'm James Hermosdia, or Jim, CTO and co-founder of BlockApps. All right. Thank you. And so, I believe where we left, so I can't watch... video of myself so I forget exactly how we ended the last episode but I believe we pretty much ended with the ethereum launch and there were some things we left out even prior to launch that we can kind of backtrack to a little bit and then go forward to all of the kind of after launch activity so with that said um maybe I'll hand it to Victor to talk about the first consensus dapathon which was uh June 2015 I believe

**[01:37] SPEAKER_00:** yeah so that was I think the first actual hackathon building you know um what what we what in those days were known as daps I guess some people still call it but that seems to go now in favor with blockchain applications so the first idea was to really try to build um blockchain applications directly on ethereum and that was in the first consensus office which was like a very small co-working space in like Greenpoint I think I would say it was water in yeah um it was called green desks maybe

**[02:20] SPEAKER_02:** green dust yeah that's right yeah it's right next to the modern day domino park uh maybe a block away from there or so exactly yeah that's right so and it of course domino park did not exist at that time in fact domino park went up really quickly and took me by surprise i like looked up one day and there was like a big kind of well manicured park there yeah well they kind of walled it off and so it just was like uh i i don't know i thought it was like an abandoned site and then one day all of sudden the wall was gone and there was a beautiful park there

**[02:50] SPEAKER_00:** So at that event, which was, I think, two to three months before the actual launch of Ethereum, I will say the concepts were really interesting. People were coming up. And it was mostly, I think, interns that were interning at ConsenSys over that summer. And ConsenSys at this point was only like maybe 20 people at max. 20 or 30, yeah. That's interesting. it was really, really small and, you know, some great concepts came up. But like even with the stuff we built, we realized pretty quickly that no one could build anything in a short period of time. Like it was just impossible, like very basic stuff, like reading a variable off the blockchain was kind of impossible. Like you couldn't read the state off the blockchain and all this kind of stuff. So that kind of led into yeah like everything building in those days were incredibly hard and that led into so we decided at that event we were gonna at the launch of ethereum we were going to do a bigger hackathon and um that became the second consensus Dappathon which have coincided with the launch of ethereum and it was us um you know the Java client which I think was called ether camp at that time um and like other tools that were kind of combined together but what was really interesting about that one was you know it was bigger like I think the first one we had like six participants the other one we had like I think close to 30 and um but it introduced like a lot of ideas that would become more developed pretty quickly like what the winner was a game fire app like it really had that that element of tokenized gameplay there was a decentralized social app I think called truther or something some something like that and then um there was like a traceability supply chain app in those early days and that kind of all coincided uh with like the launch of ethereum

**[04:59] SPEAKER_04:** yeah so okay in this so so you're talking about the second one i'm talking about the second one yeah the second one also the offices had shifted so we had um um our consensus which we were kind of working as a part of at that time uh had moved to a much larger office in bushwick um which is uh i believe they still have a presence there though they've gone um mostly remote i remember there was like a there's like a horse lineage app yeah yeah interesting you know um and we ended up actually hiring a couple people who participated in in the hackathon but that one was uh open to externals right so that was the big difference and it actually was you know quite well attended um the room I think never had the greatest air conditioning but it was really quite hot in there if I recall um and you think that one was like 24 hours or it was two days I can't I think it was two days and yeah like the air conditioning thing

**[06:02] SPEAKER_00:** so we moved into that space to have the hackathon like you know consensus was playing because they had outgrown that co-working space already and so we moved into that space which can you know was a reasonably sized room like you could probably get 80 to 100 people in that room right but yes the air conditioning was terrible and we had to frantically um we only realized this after we got into the room so we had to like frantically buy something set them up Okay, I do have a memory of that. Yeah, I don't know if you recall that. But yeah, we were like trying to like get those air conditioning units in place before a ton of people showed up. Because yeah, like we were sweating when there were only like five people in the room. these were the scrappy days yeah manually configuring air condition I think the amount of like furniture assembly that you do is like a good proxy for you are in in your startup Journey there was a lot of furniture I mean we we like it was basically an empty room when we moved in there and I think we moved in there a day or two before the hackathon actually started so we had to get everything up and running and it was this to like sort of commemorate the launch I think or was it like right before the launch it was it was it was right it actually you know if if you recall at the time we didn't know when the launch would be like this the the dates were always shifting right and we just said we kind of arbitrarily chose like we wanted to actually synchronize it with the launch but because it was because we couldn't know exactly when the launch was and even when they declared the date it was still a little bit vague like we're like exactly what actually happened so we we have at some point had to arbitrarily choose the date and they they more or less what was the right date like I think it was off by maybe a day or two

**[07:55] SPEAKER_04:** Jim, I might have asked you this last episode, but I'll ask again. Do you remember, one, trying to predict the launch and could you explain how? And two, there was some complicated mechanism for how the launch would actually happen because it's hard for like a decentralized group to decide on a launch time. I can't remember that at all. You were mentioning it in the last video and I didn't remember this, but I don't doubt it. You were saying we were looking through the Git commits at the time. We were, yes. You know, you made this plot. It was like commits by day. And as like the commits, and you like extrapolated it for it, I think probably got within a couple days of the launch date. But... okay so i have to yeah i still don't know how they like set the clock on the first block so to speak maybe we can like dig this up there was something they did um and that we had probably in our dms i i wish i thought to look between the first and second video to find the actual discussion that we had maybe the graph is in there yeah yeah that's very funny the slack is the treasure trove of uh interesting things um all right uh so yeah so it launched um and i kind of felt like there was a sort of and then what going on you know it took a little time for things to get going and then you know this it obviously it's been a smashing success right it's just sort of the reality of a new platform you sort of get it out there

**[09:25] SPEAKER_02:** you see what people do you learn from it and you know it took a minute for the activity to kick in i remember like like a lot of people around us at the time had been buying a lot of pre-sale ether beforehand and so the day it came out i think they were expecting it to like have a huge jump in value immediately and when when like you know a couple weeks had gone by and it was only uh still like 20 cents in ether so i remember people around us were kind of like some of the people there were like oh this thing was a flop it's never gonna go anywhere yeah yeah

**[09:59] SPEAKER_04:** yeah it's just psychologically yeah the expectations were super high there was this concept floating on consensus of day one daps like yeah I had to be ready right for the launch because you know it was a land grab and things were going to the moon and you know it turned out to you know not quite obviously again smashing success but yeah the price is like under a dollar for a little bit and then around a dollar for like a while I believe um and i did want to mention so um i i had to look this up so the first ico whatever you want to call it that was on ethereum obviously ethereum did its own crowd sale um but it was like uh you know they took in bitcoin and there was it was something like two thousand ether to one bitcoin at the time which i believe at the time was like 20 or 30 cents and then it had gone up to a dollar on launch which is already a pretty good return you know but That is what it is. The first ICO apparently was Augur. And I knew the Augur guys a little bit. I was digging through the CryptoEconomicon videos. I believe one or two of them presented or run panels at CryptoEconomicon. For folks who are listening to this, CryptoEconomicon was a conference that we had in January 2015 that involved a lot of the people who then including Vitalik and some of the other ethereum folks um then subsequently created really big and interesting mostly layer one projects in the ethereum space but others as well So the videos are actually up. I tweeted a couple of them, but there was a apparently I think I created a Youtube channel like in 2,015 and uploaded all those. I definitely remember getting them recorded. So check those out if that's of interest. So Augur was the first, I guess, of the prediction markets platforms. There have since been a couple of new ones that have popped up that seem to be popular. There was also this sort of competing project called Truthcoin. um and i was kind of confused about how the two related to each other um i think there was no formal relation though i remember meeting up there's getting matt liston i met who i checked his linkedin he's been a different couple different places so i think auger uh maybe we should look up who actually founded auger so jeremy gardner i you know i've known over the years I met him in San Francisco with Vitalik. because Vitalik was staying at what was turned at the time the crypto Castle um and you know it's kind of what you would imagine sort of like a co-working co-living um crypto space for and not everyone there was working on augur they're all working on different things it's kind of common uh thing to do well I I think if you hear the term crypto Castle now people would imagine an actual Castle say you know what you're describing which is more like a dormitory yes it was more like a dorm I mean it was a nice nice little house I think I can't remember it might have been like adjacent to the mission in in San Francisco um and So Vitalik would stay there sometimes. Joey Krug, I've probably met two or three times over the years. I'm not even sure if I ever met Jack Peterson. So those are the three founders of Augur. So I guess they were good friends with Vitalik or just sort of had realized early on that it would be easier to develop on Ethereum than it would be to try to do something with Bitcoin, which was... kind of the predominant suggestion at the time but they did the first on ethereum um um crowdfund um like i guess right after launch the wikipedia is saying august 2015. um which is really, really early. I don't know if I believe this Wikipedia page. It says, soon after the platform launched, users had created the death pools or assassination markets on famous people. So back in 2015, every discussion about blockchain Justin Delacruz, Ph.D.: eventually led both to prediction markets, and then this sort of uncensored ability. You can't shut it down would lead then to assassination markets. Um! Assassination markets being you predict you bet on the day someone dies, you know, and then someone takes the other side of that bed. Justin Delacruz- kills them and collects on it so apparently they're actually were assassination markets created on otter according to this Wikipedia page i'm yeah I have to look into that i'm a little bit dubious but, in any case. Justin Delacruz- I guess auger then blaze the trail sort of after a theory ended with a successful crowd sale. um for the wave of icos that that came later um but yeah so truth coin was also this competing project i just remember meeting up with matt at like a berkeley coffee shop and talking about both auger and truth coin had some sort of David Price- You know machine learning slightly like computer science graph theoretic way of like determining what the truth was so like you take a bunch of votes from a bunch of people, but then determine the principal components of. David Price- How the voting is an extract the truth from there was it was sounded like very you know high end math mechanistic which it was very common of the space every like. You know the crypto has a lot of these like, and I was in the math department, a lot of these like mathematician types who like kind of came in and wanted to create like really complicated schemes and mechanisms and all that sort of stuff that had provable theoretical properties for something interesting about you know this this space but yeah I'm so so they must have launched it like right away that's very interesting I remember us talking to them at some point and they were developing that like they did want to be a day one Dapp I remember and they were I think the platform went live 2018 the Wikipedia page says but they did the crowd sale like basically right away right right yeah um So should we go on to DevCon 1, which I guess I can talk about? So kind of concurrently, while all this is happening, we started to work a bunch. So ConsenSys had a business development team. a little bit bit of a mix uh marketing BD actual sales you know Etc that um was starting to generate interest from big companies in the technology so um you know uh for us ourselves we definitely worked with companies far more than sort of the crypto public for you know most of the history of the company um still don't really work with the crypto public today um But you know consensus was kind of conflicted on this front. So they you know what they they had sort of pure blockchain native project, and eventually in big numbers. They also had an enterprise arm which is really more consulting oriented, although they kind of ended up sort of backfilling what they saw demand for with products at times. But in any case, the BD folks were reaching out to everybody, and they actually got a fair bit of interest from Microsoft. And I think Microsoft had already been kind of watching the Ethereum revolution and seeing it as something interesting, the new front of the cloud war, perhaps. And so you know we got to working with them, and I should maybe for the technical part of this I could kind of transition. But basically, so consensus had a couple you know. preferred projects which had the low level you know like low level I mean like the blockchain client itself infrastructure that could be deployed on cloud platforms and maybe yeah so that ended up being basically us and the you know the Java folks um

**[18:30] SPEAKER_00:** Vic, do you want to take any? I think you were saying before. Yeah, sure. So they were interested in kind of being able to deploy one of the clients that we had. We had the Haskell client and then the Java folks. They were actually more interested in the Java folks. Wait, I should take a step back here. Just mentioning that DevCon 1 almost didn't happen, if you recall, right? Because it was in this low period and the ethereum foundation was kind of running out money because you know this is why the launch had to happen when it happened and in that low period they were like you know still trying to preserve a lot of cash and so it almost didn't happen and i remember like a lot of people inside consensus were like no like we have to like bring this to kind of bring this up and make an event out of this you know like I think Andrew Keyes was leading the charge in that really saying like we got to do this and then this Microsoft thing kind of bundled into that right so it was us and the Java client and my background was like you know in my previous company I had tried to work with Microsoft and building apps like when they had their first mobile platform and it took me like six months to get a meeting and I had a cousin who was like a VP at Microsoft so So it was amazing to me that they were just coming to us and they wanted to launch something with us in two months. And I think at that point, we decided, okay, this is a huge opportunity. We're going to drop everything and focus on that launch, which turned out to be the launch of Blockchain as a Service. but oddly enough the Java guys started and then they just kind of faded away like they they weren't really interested in kind of pursuing it um they just had other things going on so we we like went over it so by the time devcon1 happened the only thing that was working was you know our client on it was ready on the cloud you could download it and you could start building on it right away And then remember, we started to get downloads immediately. People started to get people using it immediately. But that's also, in that run up, that was when we realized, when Microsoft realized, if we're going to make this as a developer tool, it can't connect to the public Ethereum network because people wouldn't be able to get ether. It was quite hard to get ether at that point. There weren't really that many exchanges or anything to go on. That's how we created private Ethereum and private enterprise, what became known as private Ethereum or enterprise Ethereum.

**[21:22] SPEAKER_04:** that that kind of all led up and then the launch itself in London um when we got up with Microsoft I think people were shocked that Microsoft was into it you know so uh I just looked that up and didn't have in our little outline but I I had forgotten about this so I think coinbase listed ether like mid 2016 right I'm seeing May 24th 2016.

**[21:47] SPEAKER_00:** so and I I guess like Kraken was the popular exchange at the time you know I think it was poloniacs I'm sorry you're right yeah poloniacs still exist and I just remember there was like the chat function on poloniacs and like man like that was like crazy like that was Discord before there was Discord

**[22:08] SPEAKER_04:** oh wait hold on Circle bought it maybe and then it seems to have shut it down anyway I'm confused by all this but yeah so it was like it was sketchy for sure um it was like a whale chat box I never really used it but I would like to see it on people's computers and all that sort of thing it was um it was difficult to get it in and out of ether for a while Jim are you gonna say something

**[22:33] SPEAKER_02:** I'm just kind of remembering back then. Remind me, because I'm sort of like, not sure if I've got this straight, but I think maybe you're downplaying the Java thing a little bit. I think if I remember right, Microsoft guys were pretty mad at that time. Am I misremembering that? No, you're not.

**[22:51] SPEAKER_00:** well the thing is they really want something that they could pitch to companies and you know like um just you know companies use Java right so they were like really and um um so like when we kind of like were like like we just dropped everything and just focused on that and I remember like we sort of had the internal mantra like we gotta get on stage and be able to write adapt in like 30 seconds like that was our internal magic they had like pre-announced something or something and then the Java guys sort of disappeared or something yeah They preannounced that, you know, they were going to show like the Java client and the Haskell client. And we were like this. We were like the runner up. Like they were like, I think they kind of accepted us because we were willing to work really hard. And the Java got like, I think they knew that they needed a backup.

**[23:50] SPEAKER_02:** The other thing I, I remember about Microsoft is that there was a little bit of like, uh, um, uh, tension within there because there were the, they were just launching Azure at that time. Yeah. And at the same time they had blockchain people and the blockchain people really wanted to focus on the blockchain side of it. And the Azure people wanted to like use this as a way to, to promote, uh, the new platform. So, so there was always a little bit of friction within.

**[24:15] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean, like, I remember, like, I think the, you know, Marley Gray was really driving those efforts inside Microsoft at the time. And they were like, they were like, really, really pushing it. And I remember, like, they were trying to get people in the room to talk to us. And some of them weren't even I mean, it was probably like you said, they were launching Azure. So that's a huge project. I'm sure they were just busy with other stuff. But we spent a lot of time in their New York office. I remember we were like going there all the time.

**[24:46] SPEAKER_04:** I'm seeing the Azure launches 2010. I checked it, but it did feel much more nascent than it is today. Like Amazon got out, AWS got out there and like took the whole market. And then Azure was kind of like in a catch-up mode, but I think it might've even like exceeded AWS revenues at some point. They were running around one of the conferences. I can't remember which one, handing out free passes to everyone. It was that conference, DEV CON 1. Okay.

**[25:14] SPEAKER_00:** yeah they were they were handing it out and that's why they wanted to make sure we were on their Marketplace so like they could hand out this free pass and you could get the you know you could get the um our client up and running and start building something right away that was like a revelation to a lot of people i remember like dozens of companies were like starting in that first week their devious plan worked on us that we grabbed a whole bunch of free uh passes and then a year later we were like giving them like ten thousand dollars a month to stay on it it definitely works but i guess yeah yeah but i don't know if you remember like that the day after the microsoft announcement there was a spike in the price and we were like

**[26:02] SPEAKER_04:** I think we just did the price you mean the Microsoft stock price no no no I meant I think it was both actually yeah I think memory of the Microsoft stock price like slightly ticking yeah I think they both went up and we were like hey I think we actually did that so like either went from 20 cents to 30 cents

**[26:23] SPEAKER_00:** uh no i think it actually went significantly up i i remember like like it was i think it might have like doubled for a day or something like that 20 cents to 40 cents

**[26:34] SPEAKER_04:** maybe I think it was like a dollar to a dollar 80 or I I don't remember the price check it out but it's hard to see it's funny the price range is like so yes because the price is oh okay so it's interesting right so so devcon's like December right yeah something like that it's around a dollar yeah there it is see where it starts taking up like yeah and I think we definitely got calls related to the Microsoft announcement into January yeah for sure

**[27:04] SPEAKER_02:** So we probably had something to do with it. You never know really what's causing price action. I'm joking, but I just remember sort of the mentality within was that until it was up to $20, people thought it was a flop. And somehow when it hit $20, everybody around me all of sudden got really excited then.

**[27:25] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah. The average person buys high, sells low. That's pretty successful. It's funny. And it was still low. Um, okay. So moving along kind of on the back of the enterprise announcement, uh, sorry, the Microsoft announcement, we started to get customers. Um, and a lot of it was like enterprises that were fairly early in their journey and, um, you know, wanted just some advice on, on blockchain technology. Some of them were actually ready to implement something. I don't know, Vic, you took a whole lot of phone calls, you know, do you want to comment on, on any of that?

**[28:05] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, it was kind of amazing. like now the numbers in relative size seem pretty small but in the first couple months we went from zero to like dozens of companies calling us right and and and the amazing thing to me was they had actually tried our software like they had played around and like i remember over and over people were like oh you know like we've been working on a blockchain project for the last two years and haven't been able to build anything and now we can do something right so i remember like we were getting them from financial companies and like you know um uh resource company and mining companies and like it was like all across the spectrum of people are trying things because I don't think they really knew what they wanted to do but they wanted an easy way to get in and for the first time they had it gotcha um

**[29:02] SPEAKER_04:** Do you remember? So I believe I'm trying to keep this straight. So, um, I remember the project Slockit was sort of being marketed at DevCon1, but I believe it's a lot of the same people as the DAO. And do you remember, like, I think they presented, but I can't, I'm having a hard time keeping it straight. So Slockit was this sort of IoT kind of strange thing that you could unlock a lock, but they, it was structured around

**[29:35] SPEAKER_00:** what actually became the DAO like they I think they invented the concept not the concept but I think they practically created a DAO in order to their own this lock and then they realized well you know I I think they realized well we don't actually need to lock like the DAO is the most important thing and the lock the actual lock thing is not that interesting so yeah it was 100 the same people like they were introducing both ideas at the same time

**[30:05] SPEAKER_04:** So let me transition into the DAO part. I'm going to go slightly out of order here. So Victor, what was the DAO?

**[30:14] SPEAKER_00:** so the DAO was basically it was kind of like a investment fund on the ethereum blockchain right so basically people would put like money into this contract and this contract would basically fund the the goal of it was it would fund different projects but it started to like consume a huge amount of you know the overall ether supply I think it was as high as like 20 or 25 percent of the entire ether supply got locked up into this contract

**[30:51] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, I'm looking on the Wikipedia right now. So part of the reason I thought of it in this sequence is like looking at the price action. Part of it is that the supply, the extant Ether supply went down because, okay, so as of May 2016, the DAO had attracted nearly 14% of all Ether tokens issued to date. So they ran a crowd sale and that crowd sale raised $34 million. um 34 million by may 10 2016 um more than 50 by may 12th over 100 by may 15th so sometimes the the the dynamics of these icos this is one thing one it's kind of crazy but like One thing that blockchain you seem to do that are it's really difficult to do with other technologies is to have this sort of really large scale collaboration and in this case to cool capital basically so. I suppose the there was a some sort of virality going on, people are talking about the Dow and you just see this like enormous movement of funds. sort of overnight. and So, okay, they end up holding by May 21st, 2016, over $150 million in Ether from over 10,000 people, which is about, it says, according to the article, about 14% of all Ether tokens issued at that time. So it was really fast, right? Like, it took everybody's surprise. I remember, I think I had a meeting that the enterprise folks at ConsenSys had set up with, I'm going to say the people at BVVA, I'm forgetting last names, but I think it was like Scarlett and Carlos. I don't think you went to this one, Vic. I think you weren't in town. they were just like it just caught everyone's attention it was crazy you know and they were we were talking a bit about like operational use cases for the bank um but then it was also like you know there was a sense that like this is where the future is like the money just moved you know like there were no really you know those heavy subscription agreements and you know all that sort of thing and you know it was also a cautionary tale of what was to come over the next couple years um yeah so by by June the people discovered that you could exploit the Dow to siphon off the funds

**[33:35] SPEAKER_00:** yeah do you remember anything about that but beyond you know it was crazy um so so there were so you had all the supply locked into this contract and I think the hack was like yeah so there was this massive race between there was a flaw in the contract logic and because it's immutable the smart contract couldn't be changed right and when people realized there was this massive race between the people who were trying to extract the money out of the contract and the people who actually worked on the Dow itself so it was like this and but the people who were successful at kind of extracting the money pulled out a lot of it like I think I I don't remember the number but I think it was like a huge amount of the value they were able to pull that out yeah now the the the ironic thing was that it got pulled out and put into an account and everyone knew where it went because you know everything on the blockchain is completely transparent but no one could do anything about it like they couldn't take the money out and so the money was just sitting there basically that got like it was like it got stolen and left on the side of the street or something and no one knew what to do about this situation

**[34:54] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, yeah. And so, okay. I'm kind of looking back on it. So it was, yeah, it blew up. And it also caused the creation. So I remember there was a, at this time, and we had to implement this in our software, a hard fork debate because, so it's pretty early. It's like less than a year after Ethereum launched. probably a lot of the big ether holders participated in this. They've lost significant funds, maybe all of their funds. And the question was like, do you make people whole or do you stick true to the absolute immutability of, in the classic blockchain sense where, it's totally buyer beware um shouldn't have put your ether in this contract if you weren't gonna you know um uh if you weren't prepared to lose it and the um refund group one you know so in a sense I mean both like ethereum Bitcoin really all the projects are governed to an extent right by the people who develop the software and kind of on an ongoing basis, discuss additions to the protocol, et cetera, et cetera. And even in the early days of Bitcoin, I was not really around for this, but supposedly they had to be extremely creative about keeping the protocol running while not ever reverting any of the history. I don't believe they've ever done a hard fork of the nature described here, though there have been, maybe not sponsored by the founders. Obviously, there are forks of Bitcoin now, Bitcoin Cash, all that sort of thing. And so the Ethereum community elected to, or the foundation or whatever it is, elected to um sort of forcibly revert the funds um there's just like a almost like a credit as of a certain block number um so everyone got their funds back Jim had to code it maybe I helped a little bit now I was not coding anymore at this point um and so then ethereum classic was like the hard line like we're sticking the immutability um sorry Jim are you gonna say something oh no picture you're gonna say something no no no no um and so ethereum classic got some backers you know I think maybe famously I think Barry Silbert was in their ethereum classic maybe still is um and eventually it was I think someday Victor you told me this right someday later it had a hard fork itself right when some issue was discovered with the protocol is that correct

**[38:07] SPEAKER_00:** I don't know if it was a hard fork or a soft fork, but there have been debates inside the Ethereum Classic community too on how to implement different changes into the protocol. It's not just running. I think Bob Summerwill of the Ethereum Classic Collective knows more about this stuff than I do.

**[38:35] SPEAKER_04:** interesting yeah maybe I could follow up on uh exactly how this went down but I think also I think ethereum classic maybe it was mining forever philosophically yeah whereas ethereum switched over to proof of stake like a year ago yeah you know you're now um so yeah there were more kind of uh although there was okay you know I just googled it Here's a June 28th Cointelegraph article that says, Ethereum classic devs announced upcoming hard fork, yada, yada. So they at least subsequently did some amount of hard forking, but you know, interesting nonetheless. Um funny thing also when this this hard fork happens right it's you know you don't uh this is a silly comment uh from someone who's you know um fairly compliance focused right like what's the tax treatment of a hard fork like you had some say you had some tokens on one chain and then they morph and now you have tokens on both chains I think it's like airdrops too or like ordinary income which means whether or not you wanted those hard fork coins you know you you probably have to pay taxes on them if you can access and liquidate them but you have to pay them whether or not you liquidate it's not just capital gains you know so interesting uh quite a quite a strange uh test of our system that we've seen with blockchain because you know they fork all the time there's lots of airdrops etc you might not even be aware um all right so that was the Dow um I want to um yeah this is crazy like I still kind of can't believe this happened and it's happened way bigger and differently later but um you know it it's um yeah it was just quite a moment you know all of us

**[40:28] SPEAKER_00:** well I I I looked up the current price and in current dollars it would be roughly the equivalent of 30 billion dollars if you think about it so yeah it'd be huge you know like because just I think we're so small at the time right yeah

**[40:46] SPEAKER_04:** okay I want to take you to the um second coin desk consensus hackathon um and again hand it to Victor for everything you recall also we have some pictures from that time do you we could just show some of that on screen yeah I found I found it from coin desk let me see if I can still find them but um so what I remember of it is that it was

**[41:10] SPEAKER_00:** I think it was one of the first CoinDesk consensus events, which subsequently became huge. And then so they kind of had two events around it. One was a hackathon, which we were part of. and then and we were running we were like one of the main platforms that was participating in it and then there was um the event itself which was i think at the ritz like both events were in times square like the hackathon came first at microsoft in times square and then the event was kind of you know a couple blocks away in the hotel and i remember that like during the hackathon itself we were in all in these like different conference rooms that and there was you know like early hyperledger and some other I can't remember who the other clients were but there were like competing um clients that were not ethereum based and there was a pretty good turnout I think like over 100 people showed up like a lot of people kind of showed up and our room got so crowded we have to like co-opt another boardroom in order to kind of like build so like I think we got like a significant majority of the developers um building stuff on our platform which was super exciting and I remember kind of walking by the rooms that like Hyperledger had had or I'm trying to remember what the other client had had and like you know there were weren't very many people in there it seemed like the people that were in there were like people who were working for them so that was really really exciting though at the end we didn't win at least someone building on our