**[00:00] SPEAKER_03:** All right, well welcome back, everybody. The first episode of the Early Days of Ethereum actually got quite good critical reception on LinkedIn and Twitter. I have a total of nine YouTube subscribers now, which I think is not so bad for a first video. And there have been a few people who reached out—people we've known a long time—who really appreciated the content. One of them called it, you know, essential viewing. So anyway, we're back for another episode. So, remind everybody, I'm Kieren James-Lubin, CEO of BlockApps, here with my co-founders. Victor, do you want to introduce yourself quickly?

**[00:38] SPEAKER_00:** Oh, okay. I'm Victor Wong, co-founder and chief product officer of BlockApps.

**[00:44] SPEAKER_01:** I'm James from OSD Hour, CTO and co-founder of BlockApps.

**[00:50] SPEAKER_03:** All right, thank you. And so, I believe where we left off—I can't watch video of myself, so I forget exactly how we ended the last episode—but I believe we pretty much ended with the Ethereum launch, and there were some things we left out even prior to launch that we can kind of backtrack to a little bit, and then go forward to all of the kind of after-launch activity. So with that said, maybe I'll hand it to Victor to talk about the first ConsenSys Dappathon, which was June 2015, I believe.

**[01:38] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, so that was, I think, the first actual hackathon building—what in those days were known as dapps. (I guess some people still call it that, but that seems to have gone now in favor of blockchain applications.) The first idea was to really try to build blockchain applications directly on Ethereum, and that was in the first ConsenSys office, which was like a very small co-working space in Greenpoint. I think I would say it was Water in—yeah, it was called Green Desks, maybe?

**[02:20] SPEAKER_01:** Green Dust, yeah, that's right. It's right next to the modern-day Domino Park—maybe a block away from there or so. Exactly, yeah, that's right. And, of course, Domino Park did not exist at that time. In fact, Domino Park went up really quickly and took me by surprise. I like looked up one day, and there was like a big, well-manicured park there. Yeah, well, they kind of walled it off, and so it just was like—I don't know, I thought it was like an abandoned site, and then one day all of a sudden the wall was gone, and there was a beautiful park there.

**[02:50] SPEAKER_00:** So at that event, which was, I think, two to three months before the actual launch of Ethereum, I will say the concepts were really interesting. People were coming up with ideas. And it was mostly, I think, interns that were interning at ConsenSys over that summer. And ConsenSys at this point was only like maybe 20 people at max—20 or 30, yeah. That's interesting. It was really, really small. And you know, some great concepts came up, but even with the stuff we built, we realized pretty quickly that no one could build anything in a short period of time. It was just impossible. Very basic stuff—like reading a variable off the blockchain—was kind of impossible. You couldn't read the state off the blockchain and all this kind of stuff. So that kind of led into—yeah, like everything building in those days was incredibly hard.

That led into us deciding at that event that, at the launch of Ethereum, we were going to do a bigger hackathon, and that became the second ConsenSys Dappathon, which coincided with the launch of Ethereum. It was us—you know, the Java client, which I think was called Ether.Camp at that time—and like other tools that were kind of combined together. But what was really interesting about that one was, you know, it was bigger. I think the first one we had like six participants; the other one we had close to 30. But it introduced a lot of ideas that would become more developed pretty quickly. Like, the winner was a game, Fire App—it really had that element of tokenized gameplay. There was a decentralized social app, I think called Truthr or something—some something like that—and then there was like a traceability supply chain app in those early days. And that kind of all coincided with the launch of Ethereum.

**[04:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, so okay—you're talking about the second one. I'm talking about the second one, yeah. The second one also—the offices had shifted. So we had—ConsenSys, which we were kind of working as a part of at that time—had moved to a much larger office in Bushwick, which—I believe they still have a presence there, though they've gone mostly remote. I remember there was like a horse lineage app—yeah, yeah, interesting. You know, and we ended up actually hiring a couple people who participated in the hackathon. But that one was open to externals, right? So that was the big difference, and it actually was quite well attended. The room, I think, never had the greatest air conditioning, but it was really quite hot in there, if I recall. And, you think that one was like 24 hours, or it was two days? I can't—I think it was two days. Yeah, like the air conditioning thing.

**[06:02] SPEAKER_00:** So we moved into that space to have the hackathon. You know, ConsenSys was playing host because they had outgrown that co-working space already, and so we moved into that space, which—you know—was a reasonably sized room. You could probably get 80 to 100 people in that room, right? But yes, the air conditioning was terrible, and we had to frantically—we only realized this after we got into the room—so we had to like frantically buy some and set them up.

**[06:30] SPEAKER_03:** Okay, I do have a memory of that.

**[06:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I don't know if you recall that. But yeah, we were like trying to get those air conditioning units in place before a ton of people showed up. Because, yeah, like we were sweating when there were only like five people in the room.

**[06:44] SPEAKER_03:** These were the scrappy days—in manually configuring air conditioning. I think the amount of furniture assembly that you do is a good proxy for how scrappy you are in your startup journey.

**[06:57] SPEAKER_00:** There was a lot of furniture. It was basically an empty room when we moved in there. And I think we moved in there a day or two before the hackathon actually started, so we had to get everything up and running. And it was—to sort of commemorate the launch, I think? Or was it like right before the launch? It was right—it actually, you know, if you recall at the time, we didn't know when the launch would be. The dates were always shifting, right? And we just said—we kind of arbitrarily chose. We wanted to actually synchronize it with the launch, but because we couldn't know exactly when the launch was—and even when they declared the date, it was still a little bit vague—like, we're like, "Exactly what actually happened?" So we had, at some point, to arbitrarily choose the date, and they more or less—what was the right date? Like, I think it was off by maybe a day or two.

**[07:55] SPEAKER_03:** Jim, I might have asked you this last episode, but I'll ask again. Do you remember, one, trying to predict the launch—and could you explain how? And two, there was some complicated mechanism for how the launch would actually happen because it's hard for a decentralized group to decide on a launch time. I can't remember that at all.

**[08:13] SPEAKER_01:** You were mentioning it in the last video, and I didn't remember this, but I don't doubt it. It sounds correct. You were saying we were looking through the Git commits at the time.

**[08:22] SPEAKER_03:** We were, yes. You made this plot. It was like commits by day, and as the commits— and you extrapolated it for it. I think it probably got within a couple of days of the launch date. Okay, so I have to—yeah, I still don't know how they like set the clock on the first block, so to speak. Maybe we can dig this up. There was something they did, and that we had probably in our DMs. I wish I thought to look between the first and second video to find the actual discussion that we had. Maybe the graph is in there. Yeah, yeah, that's very funny. Slack is the treasure trove of interesting things.

All right, so yeah—it launched, and I kind of felt like there was a sort of "and then what?" going on. You know, it took a little time for things to get going, and then you know—it's obviously been a smashing success, right? It's just sort of the reality of a new platform: you sort of get it out there, see what people do, learn from it. And it took a minute for the activity to kick in.

**[09:33] SPEAKER_01:** I remember a lot of people around us at the time had been buying a lot of presale Ether beforehand. And so the day it came out, I think they were expecting it to have a huge jump in value immediately. And when—like, you know—a couple weeks had gone by and it was still like 20 cents in Ether, so I remember people around us were kind of like—some of the people there were like, "Oh, this thing was a flop. It's never gonna go anywhere." Yeah, yeah.

**[09:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, it's just psychologically—the expectations were super high. There was this concept floating on ConsenSys of "day one dapps," like, "Yeah, I had to be ready right for the launch because you know it was a land grab and things were going to the moon." And you know, it turned out—not quite, obviously. Again, smashing success, but yeah—the price was like under a dollar for a little bit, and then around a dollar for like a while, I believe.

And I did want to mention—so I had to look this up. The first ICO—whatever you want to call it—that was on Ethereum: obviously Ethereum did its own crowdsale, but it was like—they took in Bitcoin, and there was—it was something like 2,000 Ether to one Bitcoin at the time, which I believe was like 20 or 30 cents, and then it had gone up to a dollar on launch, which is already a pretty good return. You know, but that is what it is.

The first ICO apparently was Augur. And I knew the Augur guys a little bit. I was digging through the CryptoEconomicon videos. I believe one or two of them presented or ran panels at CryptoEconomicon. For folks who are listening to this, CryptoEconomicon was a conference that we had in January 2015 that involved a lot of the people who then—including Metallic and some of the other Ethereum folks—subsequently created really big and interesting, mostly Layer 1 projects in the Ethereum space, but others as well. So the videos are actually up. I tweeted a couple of them, but there was a—I think I created a YouTube channel like in 2015 and uploaded all those. I definitely remember getting them recorded. So check those out if that's of interest.

So Augur was the first, I guess, of the prediction market platforms. There have since been a couple of new ones that have popped up that seem to be popular. There was also this sort of competing project called Truthcoin. And I was kind of confused about how the two related to each other. I think there was no formal relation, though I remember meeting up—there's getting Matt Liston. I met—who I checked his LinkedIn—he's been at a couple different places, so I think Augur—maybe we should look up who actually founded Augur. So Jeremy Gardner—I've known over the years. And I met him in San Francisco with Vitalik because Metallic was staying at what was—at the time—the Crypto Castle. And you know, it's kind of what you would imagine—sort of like a co-working, co-living crypto space. And not everyone there was working on Augur; they're all working on different things. It's kind of a common thing to do. Well, I think if you hear the term "Crypto Castle" now, people would imagine an actual castle. Say—you know—what you're describing, which is more like a dormitory. Yes, it was more like a dorm. I mean, it was a nice little house. I think I can't remember—it might have been like adjacent to the Mission in San Francisco.

And so Vitalik would stay there sometimes. Joey Krug—I've probably met two or three times over the years. I'm not even sure if I ever met Jack Peterson. So those are the three founders of Augur. So I guess they were good friends with Vitalik or just sort of had realized early on that it would be easier to develop on Ethereum than it would be to try to do something with Bitcoin, which was kind of the predominant suggestion at the time. But they did the first on Ethereum—like, I guess right after launch. Wikipedia is saying August 2015, which is really, really early.

I don't know if I believe this Wikipedia page—it says, "Soon after the platform launched, users had created death pools or assassination markets on famous people." So back in 2015, every discussion about blockchain—Justin Delacruz, Ph.D.—eventually led both to prediction markets, and then this sort of uncensored ability—"You can't shut it down"—would lead then to assassination markets. Assassination markets being: you predict, you bet on the day someone dies, and then someone takes the other side of that bet—Justin Delacruz kills them and collects on it. So apparently, there actually were assassination markets created on Augur, according to this Wikipedia page. I have to look into that—I'm a little bit dubious—but in any case, I guess Augur then blazed the trail, sort of after Ethereum did, with a successful crowdsale, for the wave of ICOs that came later.

But yeah, so Truthcoin was also this competing project. I just remember meeting up with Matt at like a Berkeley coffee shop and talking about—both Augur and Truthcoin had some sort of—David Price—you know, machine learning, slightly like computer science, graph-theoretic way of like determining what the truth was. So like, you take a bunch of votes from a bunch of people, but then determine the principal components of—David Price—how the voting is, and extract the truth from there. It was sounded like very—you know—high-end math, mechanistic, which was very common of the space. Every—you know—crypto has a lot of these like, and I was in the math department—a lot of these like mathematician types who kind of came in and wanted to create really complicated schemes and mechanisms and all that sort of stuff that had provable theoretical properties for something. Interesting about this space.

But yeah, so they must have launched it like right away—that's very interesting. I remember us talking to them at some point, and they were developing that. Like, they did want to be a day one dapp. I remember, and I think the platform went live 2018—the Wikipedia page says—but they did the crowdsale like basically right away. Right, right, yeah.

So should we go on to DevCon 1, which I guess I can talk about? So kind of concurrently, while all this is happening, we started to work a bunch. So ConsenSys had a business development team—a little bit of a mix: marketing, BD, actual sales, etc.—that was starting to generate interest from big companies in the technology. So, you know—for us ourselves—we definitely worked with companies far more than sort of the crypto public for, you know, most of the history of the company. We still don't really work with the crypto public today. But you know, ConsenSys was kind of conflicted on this front. So they—you know—had sort of pure blockchain-native projects, and eventually in big numbers. They also had an enterprise arm, which is really more consulting-oriented, although they kind of ended up sort of backfilling what they saw demand for with products at times.

But in any case, the BD folks were reaching out to everybody, and they actually got a fair bit of interest from Microsoft. And I think Microsoft had already been kind of watching the Ethereum revolution and seeing it as something interesting—the new front of the cloud war, perhaps. And so, you know, we got to working with them. And so maybe for the technical part of this, I could kind of transition. But basically, so ConsenSys had a couple—you know—preferred projects, which had the low-level—I mean, like the blockchain client itself—infrastructure that could be deployed on cloud platforms. And maybe yeah, so that ended up being basically us and the—you know—the Java folks. Vic, do you want to take any? I think you were saying before.

**[18:33] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, sure. So they were interested in kind of being able to deploy one of the clients that we had. We had the Haskell client and then the Java folks. They were actually more interested in the Java folks. Wait, I should take a step back here. Just mentioning that DevCon 1 almost didn't happen, if you recall, right? Because it was in this low period, and the Ethereum Foundation was kind of running out of money—because, you know, this is why the launch had to happen when it happened. And in that low period, they were like, "You know, still trying to preserve a lot of cash," so it almost didn't happen. And I remember like a lot of people inside ConsenSys were like, "No, like—we have to bring this up and make an event out of this." I think Andrew Keys was leading the charge in that, really saying, "We got to do this." And then this Microsoft thing kind of bundled into that.

So it was us and the Java client. And my background was—like, in my previous company, I had tried to work with Microsoft and building apps like when they had their first mobile platform, and it took me like six months to get a meeting—and I had a cousin who was like a VP at Microsoft. So it was amazing to me that they were just coming to us and they wanted to launch something with us in two months. And I think at that point, we decided, "Okay, this is a huge opportunity. We're going to drop everything and focus on that launch," which turned out to be launching Blockchain as a Service.

But oddly enough, the Java guys started, and then they just kind of faded away. They weren't really interested in kind of pursuing it. They just had other things going on. So we went over it. So by the time DevCon 1 happened, the only thing that was working was our client. It was ready on the cloud. You could download it, and you could start building on it right away. And then remember, we started to get downloads immediately. People started to get—people using it immediately.

But that's also—in that run-up—that was when we realized—when Microsoft realized—if we're going to make this as a developer tool, it can't connect to the public Ethereum network because people wouldn't be able to get Ether. Like, it was quite hard to get Ether at that point. There weren't really that many exchanges or anything to go on. So we were—that's kind of how we kind of created like private Ethereum—you know, and private enterprise—what became known as private, if they were more enterprise-up here.

**[21:22] SPEAKER_03:** That kind of all led up—and then the launch itself in London, when we got up with Microsoft. I think people were shocked that Microsoft was into it, you know. So I just looked that up and didn't have in our little outline, but I had forgotten about this. So I think Coinbase listed Ether like mid-2016—right? I'm seeing May 24th, 2016.

**[21:47] SPEAKER_00:** So—and I guess like Kraken was the popular exchange at the time. You know, I think it was Poloniex—I'm sorry, you're right. Yeah, Poloniex still exists, and I just remember there was like the chat function on Poloniex, and like—man, like that was like crazy. That was Discord before there was Discord.

**[22:08] SPEAKER_03:** Oh, wait—hold on. Circle bought it, maybe, and then it seems to have shut it down. Anyway, I'm confused by all this, but yeah—so it was like—it was sketchy for sure. It was like a whale chat box. I never really used it, but I would like to see it on people's computers and all that sort of thing. It was difficult to get it in and out of Ether for a while. Jim, are you gonna say something?

**[22:33] SPEAKER_01:** I'm just kind of remembering back then. Remind me—because I'm sort of like not sure if I've got this straight—but I think maybe you're downplaying the Java thing a little bit. I think if I remember right, Microsoft guys were pretty mad at that time. Am I misremembering that?

**[22:49] SPEAKER_00:** No, you're not. Well, the thing is—they really wanted something that they could pitch to companies. And, you know—companies use Java, right? So they were like really—and so like when we kind of—we just dropped everything and just focused on that. And I remember like we sort of had the internal mantra: "We gotta get on stage and be able to write a dapp in like 30 seconds." Like, that was our internal magic. They had like pre-announced something or something, and then the Java guys sort of disappeared or something. Yeah, they preannounced that, you know, they were going to show like the Java client and the Haskell client. And we were like—this. We were like the runner-up. Like, they were like—I think they kind of accepted us because we were willing to work really hard. And the Java—got like, I think they knew that they needed a backup.

**[23:50] SPEAKER_01:** The other thing I remember about Microsoft is that there was a little bit of—uh—tension within there because there were—they were just launching Azure at that time.

**[24:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[24:00] SPEAKER_01:** And at the same time, they had blockchain people, and the blockchain people really wanted to focus on the blockchain side of it. And the Azure people wanted to like use this as a way to promote the new platform. So there was always a little bit of friction within.

**[24:15] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean—I remember—I think Marley Gray was really driving those efforts inside Microsoft at the time. And like, they were like really, really pushing it. And I remember like they were trying to get people in the room to talk to us, and some of them weren't even—I mean, it was probably like you said—they were launching Azure. So that's a huge project. I'm sure they were just busy with other stuff. But we spent a lot of time in their New York office. I remember we were like going there all the time.

**[24:46] SPEAKER_03:** I'm seeing the Azure launches 2010. I checked it, but it did feel much more nascent than it is today. Like, Amazon got out—AWS got out there and like took the whole market. And then Azure was kind of like in a catch-up mode, but I think it might've even like exceeded AWS revenues at some point.

**[25:04] SPEAKER_01:** They were running around one of the conferences—I can't remember which one—handing out free passes to everyone.

**[25:11] SPEAKER_00:** It was that conference—DevCon 1.

**[25:14] UNKNOWN:** Okay.

**[25:14] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, they were handing it out. And that's why they wanted to make sure we were on their Marketplace, so like they could hand out this free pass and you could get—you know—you could get our client up and running and start building something right away. And that was like a revelation to a lot of people. I remember like dozens of companies were like starting in that first week. Their devious plan worked on us—that we grabbed a whole bunch of free passes, and then a year later we were like giving them like ten thousand dollars a month to stay on it. It definitely works.

But I guess—yeah, yeah—but I don't know if you remember—like, the day after the Microsoft announcement, there was a spike in the price, and we were like—

**[26:02] SPEAKER_03:** I think we just did the price—you mean the Microsoft stock price? No, no, no—I meant the Ethereum price. I think it was both, actually. Yeah, I think memory of the Microsoft stock price like slightly ticking—yeah, I think they both went up, and we were like, "Hey, I think we actually did that." So like, either went from 20 cents to 30 cents—

**[26:23] SPEAKER_00:** Uh, no—I think it actually went significantly up. I remember like—it was—I think it might have like doubled for a day or something like that. 20 cents to 40 cents.

**[26:34] SPEAKER_03:** Maybe—I think it was like a dollar to a dollar 80, or—I don't remember. The price—check it out. But it's hard to see. It's funny—the price range is like so—yes, because the price is—oh, okay, so it's interesting, right? So DevCon's like December, right? Yeah, something like that. It's around a dollar. Yeah, there it is—see where it starts taking up—like, yeah. And I think we definitely got calls related to the Microsoft announcement into January. Yeah, for sure. So we probably had something to do with it. You never know really what's causing price action.

**[27:12] SPEAKER_01:** I'm joking, but I just remember sort of the mentality within was that until it was up to $20, people thought it was a flop. And somehow when it hit $20, everybody around me all of a sudden got really excited then.

**[27:25] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. The average person—you know—buys high, sells low. So, yeah. That's pretty successful at 20. And it was still low.

Okay, so moving along—kind of on the back of the enterprise announcement—sorry, the Microsoft announcement—we started to get customers. And a lot of it was like enterprises that were fairly early in their journey and wanted just some advice on blockchain technology. Some of them were actually ready to implement something. I don't know, Vic—you took a whole lot of phone calls.

**[28:01] SPEAKER_00:** Oh, man, yeah.

**[28:02] SPEAKER_03:** Do you want to comment on any of that?

**[28:05] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, it was kind of amazing. Like, now the numbers—in relative size—seem pretty small, but in the first couple months, we went from zero to like dozens of companies calling us. And the amazing thing to me was they had actually tried our software. Like, they had played around. And I remember over and over, people were like, "Oh, you know—we've been working on a blockchain project for the last two years and haven't been able to build anything, and now we can do something." So I remember—we were getting them from financial companies, and like—you know—resource companies and mining companies. And like, it was like all across the spectrum. People are trying things because I don't think they really knew what they wanted to do, but they wanted an easy way to get in, and for the first time, they had it. Gotcha.

**[29:02] SPEAKER_03:** Do you remember? So I believe—I'm trying to keep this straight. So I remember the project Slockit was sort of being marketed at DevCon 1, but I believe it's a lot of the same people as the DAO. And do you remember—I think they presented, but I can't—I'm having a hard time keeping it straight.

**[29:26] SPEAKER_00:** So Slockit was this sort of IoT—kind of strange thing—that you could unlock a lock. But they—it was structured around what actually became the DAO. Like, I think they invented the concept—not the concept, but I think they practically created a DAO in order to—their own—this lock. And then they realized, "Well, you know—I think they realized—we don't actually need the lock. Like, the DAO is the most important thing, and the lock—the actual lock thing—is not that interesting." So yeah, it was 100% the same people. Like, they were introducing both ideas at the same time.

**[30:05] SPEAKER_03:** So let me transition into the DAO part. I'm going to go slightly out of order here. So Victor—what was the DAO?

**[30:14] SPEAKER_00:** So the DAO was basically—it was kind of like an investment fund on the Ethereum blockchain, right? So basically, people would put money into this contract, and this contract would—basically, the goal of it was—it would fund different projects. But it started to like consume a huge amount of—you know—the overall Ether supply. I think it was as high as like 20 or 25 percent of the entire Ether supply got locked up into this contract.

**[30:51] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I'm looking on the Wikipedia right now. So the part of the reason I thought of it in this sequence is—like, looking at the price action. Part of it is that the supply—the extant Ether supply—went down because—okay, so as of May 2016, the DAO had attracted nearly 14% of all Ether tokens issued to date. So they ran a crowdsale, and that crowdsale raised $34 million—34 million by May 10th, 2016. More than 50 by May 12th, over 100 by May 15th. So—sometimes the dynamics of these ICOs—this is one thing—one—it's kind of crazy—but like, one thing that blockchain seems to do that it's really difficult to do with other technologies is to have this sort of really large-scale collaboration, and in this case, to pool capital basically. So I suppose there was some sort of virality going on. People are talking about the DAO, and you just see this like enormous movement of funds sort of overnight.

And so—okay—they end up holding, by May 21st, 2016, over $150 million in Ether from over 10,000 people, which is about—it says, according to the article—about 14% of all Ether tokens issued at that time. So it was really fast, right? It took everybody by surprise. I remember—I think I had a meeting that the enterprise folks at ConsenSys had set up with—I'm going to say the people at BBVA—I'm forgetting last names—but I think it was like Scarlett and Carlos. I don't think you went to this one, Vic. I think you weren't in town. They were just like—it just caught everyone's attention. It was crazy, you know. And they were—we were talking a bit about like operational use cases for the bank, but then it was also like—you know—there was a sense that like, "This is where the future is." Like, the money just moved, you know. Like, there were no really—you know—those heavy subscription agreements and you know all that sort of thing. And you know, it was also a cautionary tale of what was to come over the next couple years.

Yeah, so by June, people discovered that you could exploit the DAO to siphon off the funds. Yeah, do you remember anything about that? But beyond—you know—it was crazy.

**[33:41] SPEAKER_00:** So—you had all the supply locked into this contract. And I think the hack was like—yeah, so there was this massive race. There was a flaw in the contract logic, and because it's immutable, the smart contract couldn't be changed, right? When people realized, there was this massive race between the people who were trying to extract the money out of the contract and the people who actually worked on the DAO itself. So it was like this—and but the people who were successful at kind of extracting the money pulled out a lot of it. Like, I—I don't remember the number, but I think it was like a huge amount of the value they were able to pull that out.

Now, the ironic thing was that it got pulled out and put into an account, and everyone knew where it went because—you know—everything on the blockchain is completely transparent. But no one could do anything about it. Like, they couldn't take the money out. And so the money was just sitting there—basically, it got like—it was like it got stolen and left on the side of the street or something, and no one knew what to do about this situation.

**[34:54] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, yeah. And so—okay. I'm kind of looking back on it. So it was—yeah, it blew up, and it also caused the creation. So I remember there was—at this time—and we had to implement this in our software—a hard fork debate because—so it's pretty early. It's like less than a year after Ethereum launched. Probably a lot of the big Ether holders participated in this. They've lost significant funds—maybe all of their funds. And the question was like: do you make people whole, or do you stick true to the absolute immutability of—in the classic blockchain sense—where it's totally buyer beware? "Shouldn't have put your Ether in this contract if you weren't gonna—if you weren't prepared to lose it."

And the refund group—so in a sense, I mean, both—like, Ethereum, Bitcoin—really all the projects—are governed to an extent by the people who develop the software and kind of on an ongoing basis discuss additions to the protocol, et cetera, et cetera. And even in the early days of Bitcoin—I was not really around for this, but supposedly they had to be extremely creative about keeping the protocol running while not ever reverting any of the history. I don't believe they've ever done a hard fork of the nature described here, though there have been—maybe not sponsored by the founders. Obviously, there are forks of Bitcoin now—Bitcoin Cash, all that sort of thing.

And so the Ethereum community elected to—or the Foundation or whatever that is—elected to sort of forcibly revert the funds. There's just like a—almost like a credit as of a certain block number. So everyone got their funds back. Jim had to code it. Maybe I helped a little bit. Now, I was not coding anymore at this point. And so then Ethereum Classic was like the hard line—"We're sticking to immutability." Sorry, Jim—are you gonna say something? Oh, no. Victor—are you going to say something? No, no, no.

And so Ethereum Classic got some backers—you know, I think maybe famously—I think Barry Silbert was in their Ethereum Classic—maybe still is. And eventually it was—I think someday, Victor, you told me this, right? Someday later, it had a hard fork itself, right? When some issue was discovered with the protocol. Is that correct?

**[38:07] SPEAKER_00:** I think—I don't know if it was a hard fork or a soft fork, but yeah—there have been—like, there have been debates inside the Ethereum Classic community too on how to implement different changes into the protocol. Right, it's not just running—there's constantly—I think Bob Summerwill of