**[00:02] SPEAKER_00:** Hello everybody. We are live. Welcome to Online Oracles where we are joined today by a frozen screened William. So we will hope he returns deeply

**[00:19] SPEAKER_01:** from

**[00:23] SPEAKER_00:** one framer every 10 seconds here. Oh, are you back? William? You were, you were very frozen. Can you hear us?

**[00:34] SPEAKER_02:** Yes, I'm here.

**[00:36] SPEAKER_03:** Perfect.

**[00:36] SPEAKER_00:** Okay, you went very frozen there. So, so yes, we're joined today by. By. By William, which will be the main part of the. I was gonna say show. I don't know, show is quite the right word. Is it?

**[00:52] SPEAKER_01:** Episode, podcast,

**[00:55] SPEAKER_00:** broadcast, conversation. Before we do that, Michael has a demo for us. So over to you, Michael first.

**[01:06] SPEAKER_04:** Hey everyone. Just demoing my regularly scheduled slot. So we have a couple of new updates to straddle and the structure of finding things on the app. One would be this fund option now bridge in Ethereum linear and base as we had it before the new B metals flow where it mints on purchase, which is slightly different than the swap that we're used to in this widget. Borrowing from the CDP that used to be in the advanced tab. Now here, transfer here as usual withdrawals the card when you connect your metamask card earned contribute to the different pools in the lending pool and the vault here to earn different amounts of yield and you can filter the pools here. Rewards coming back soon. Activity feeds same as it used to be. Just check your activity. All activities on the chain of blog events also available on Stratoscan Stratos Stats that's still here as well. Advanced. A couple things got moved around, but feel free to take a look if you're into some deeper features of the app and you know, referrals here in case you want to refer a friend and send them some assets on chain and everything's a little different but you know, feel free to take a look when you get a chance guys.

**[02:37] SPEAKER_02:** Okay, thank you, Michael.

**[02:39] SPEAKER_00:** Thank you, Michael.

**[02:40] SPEAKER_02:** All right, see you.

**[02:42] SPEAKER_01:** So.

**[02:44] SPEAKER_00:** So William, it's. It's great to have you on here before I murder your surname. Mugia. How. How exactly?

**[02:52] SPEAKER_02:** Good.

**[02:52] SPEAKER_01:** Pretty good.

**[02:53] SPEAKER_02:** Mugayar.

**[02:55] SPEAKER_00:** Excellent. That's great. So. So yeah, I mean William, you are not at all new to the Ethereum space. I only recently learned that you first met Vitalik on the 1 January 2014 on the opening night of Anthony Diorio's bitcoin decentral. The same, same night that Joe Lubin also joined the journey. So you are were an author of firstly the Business Blockchain which was published in 2016. You spoke at DEVCON 1 in 2015. You, you wrote a. A blog on the Official ethereum post in 2015 as well about. I can't remember quite the title there. You have a forthcoming book Trust Shift and are a self described Ethereum maxi realist. So could you give us a summary of your journey? Like how did you get involved here and what were you doing before?

**[04:01] SPEAKER_02:** How did that happen? Sure, sure, it's good to be here. Hi everybody. So I've been in the space for a long time. My whole career has been in technology, in sales and marketing, a bit of engineering. Early on my blockchain experience started perhaps in 2011 or 12. At the time I had just finished one of my startups was sold and in early 2012 I had lots of time to think about what's next. And at the time Bitcoin was the main thing. So I immersed myself and started to read about it and try to understand it. And what dawned on me is the fact that I did, I put two and two together because around 2001

**[05:05] SPEAKER_01:** when

**[05:05] SPEAKER_02:** the Internet crashed, if you remember, we saw the first version of peer to peer technology and that was with Napster and that was all about file sharing. And at the time I was running a website called Peer Intelligence. So I was keeping track of about. At the time there were 75 different technologies focused on file sharing. And file sharing was really the reason why this peer to peer application started. But then the music Napster came along and they took a good thing and turned it into a bad thing. Because the bad thing about Napster was that it started to get used for copyright infringements. So it started to be used for stealing music instead of just sharing it with the proper copyrights, which was not possible at the time. So as you know, the government stepped in and they killed Napster and then they literally threw the baby with the bathwater and they killed not just Napster, but the technology with it as well. And what's funny is today when you look at Spotify, Spotify is like Napster, it's like Napster but with the rights with the copy with actual licensing. So that's. It's too bad, like we have to go full circle and it tells you that legal, I mean you can't be not compliant. There are limits to what you can do. So when I saw the. Okay, the other, the other thing that I had experience with is my first book was written in 1996, 97, that was about the Internet, about e commerce specifically. And I have several pages written there about digital cash. And at the time it was called Digicash and Cyber Cash. But they had not solved.

**[07:14] SPEAKER_00:** The.

**[07:18] SPEAKER_02:** The problem that Bitcom solved, which it still had to be used with the database. So that was the issue. So I had seen the first version of Cybercache, but then when I saw the Bitcoin paper together, basically file sharing, we already knew about file sharing, and the transmission of money without intermediaries was being solved with the Bitcoin paper. And then I saw Vitalik on the 1st of January, and he went even further. What struck me is that I thought there was a human element to Ethereum. It struck me very early on that Vitalik's vision was not just about the movement of money. He wanted Ethereum to be a societal catalyst. And that was early on in his vision. It's kind of interesting. And then here we are 12 years later, and if you look at the mandate of the Ethereum foundation, it almost is bringing them back to their original roots. I think I'm just reading between the lines. Maybe we're stepping ahead into the future. They probably are thinking, like, what have we done in the last 12 years? Yeah, it's being used by institutions, but we haven't seen too many decentralized apps with the innovation that Ethereum deserves. And I'm just guessing this is probably why they want to make sure that Ethereum stays true to its roots, at least from a core protocol perspective. We cannot forget that Ethereum is not just about sending money from A to B, and it's not just about institutions adopting it to save money on their own processes. And we have to use Ethereum for doing new things that we could not do before. And again, I've seen that movie before because in the Internet, the first few years of the Internet, we were copying things, we were trying to do the same things that we did offline, and we did them on the web thinking that, yeah, that was innovation, that, that was great, but that first wave did not work. We had to go and crash everything and then reinvent new ways of doing things that we could not do before. So the real asset test is to ask somebody like, is this something new that you could not do before without the blockchain, or are you just doing it on the blockchain? Better, faster, cheaper, with a bit more convenience. I mean, that could be step one. I'm not minimizing those use cases, but that's not the raison d' etre of the blockchain. We have to think higher. We have to do things that we could not do before. We can pick up on that topic, because I have a lot to say on that. Topic.

**[10:41] SPEAKER_00:** I remember a particular phrase that Vitalik said at one point which was talking about an almost infinitely long tail of business process improvements. It's like that's a boring potential end state. So hopefully you've got something a bit exciting on the front end at least.

**[11:04] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Was he referring to the businesses adopting blockchain to just improve their processes instead of doing.

**[11:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah.

**[11:18] SPEAKER_02:** There's nothing wrong with that because I was involved in another technological phenomena that was very popular in 89 90, if you remember. It was called re engineering. One of my last jobs at hp, I was the re engineering czar. So I was in charge process re engineering of technology for technology for all of Canada. And we're plugged in with the worldwide team. But I mean that's what technology, if you're an IT or CIO at the time, the best thing you could do is to use technology to re engineer processes. And the idea is that you don't just put band aid, you just throw out the old process and you invent a new one. And, and, and so that, that was, there were, there were lots, lots of, there was, there was lots of activity in big corporations to do re engineering. Well, it's the same thing with the blockchain. It is another. I mean the Internet did that. It enabled some companies to re engineer processes. The blockchain is, is no different. It's allowing companies to re engineer some processes. And I heard you talk about this just a few minutes ago before we started that. There's a lot of activity right now in corporate, in the corporate world, institutions. And I'm getting that vibe as well. I was in New York two days ago and I've been listening to a couple of the events going on and it's reminding me of what was going on, to be honest, in 2016 and 17 when the blockchain just came along. I mean I was in boardrooms, I would be invited at the highest levels, you name it. Fortune 100 companies were calling me and wanted to understand how to put a blockchain strategy together. And, and what's the plan for blockchain? And at the time there were lots of pilots, if you remember.

**[13:33] SPEAKER_01:** I mean we, we built a lot of them.

**[13:40] SPEAKER_02:** So that's, that's the issue. They didn't go too far because they were, they. I mean big companies are notorious at starting pilots and giving you a hundred reasons why they will not continue with those. I'm afraid we're going to get a bit of the same flavor right now, but maybe different players to some extent. And because it doesn't cost them too much to do. Pilots, yeah, they'll throw a hundred thousand, five hundred thousand, a million dollars, two million dollars here and there. Even five million for them, for big companies is nothing. They'll start a pilot tomorrow on something. It's a bit of a distraction. Like it gives them a bit of hand waving kind of mojo and say, hey, we're doing this. We're. Yeah, no, we're serious. We have six people doing this in the corner somewhere over there now bring them to the boardroom. Good luck. Maybe, Maybe so. I mean, I'm sure we're going to get further than what we did where we got into 16 and 17 because the technology is better. But I can promise you not all of these pilots are going to get somewhere, that's for sure. Because I keep saying this. I mean, corporations can go so far in reinventing themselves. It's the innovator's dilemma. And I say this, big companies, they are never going to shoot themselves in the head. The most they will do is they will shoot themselves in the foot. It's okay. I mean, they can take a small, small amount of pain, small amount of pain, but they will not reinvent businesses. Everything has to be a tuck in. Everything has to go under their existing process. The starting point is not this, something new. The starting point is like, that's how we do things. Let's see if we can do it a little bit better. Can we tuck in the blockchain? Can we tuck it in under? Like you see all this, even that, like the stripe and the tempo and the stable coin, all of this, you know, for what, For a drop down, they're gonna give you a drop down choice that will say stable coin. Now instead of paying with this or that, now you're gonna have a drop down. It's, it's a tuck in. Like, okay, it's good, but it's not going to change the world, is it?

**[16:08] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it's funny you should say this because we're at the Digital Asset Summit and I was listening to one CEO of a major bank and talking about how it will use ethereum or other L1s and saying, oh yeah, but the problem is we need these features. So we're having conversations with them and I'm like, who are you having conversations? This is a decentralized protocol. It's not a, they still haven't figured out, like, they're not like a company that you work with. It's something that you know, it's infrastructure

**[16:38] SPEAKER_00:** that you use I remember hearing very similar things, you know, back in the day of, you know, yeah, we'll do a partnership with Ethereum. What does that even mean?

**[16:53] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, so that's where we are right now. Unfortunately, I think that there are too many at once. I mean, we talked about this three years ago. Too much infrastructure, not enough apps. I mean, there's so much infrastructure. I mean, how much more infrastructure do you need? Let's go and build some apps, let's go and do some user facing stuff. And I'll tell you that there's one area of the blockchain technology world that I think has not matured as much as I would have liked it to. And it's the part between the infrastructure and the apps. And I call that middleware. I mean, some people call it, I don't know, primitives or something like it's a glue. It's what's between the infrastructure and the applications. And we need more of these services in the middle because applications that go straight to the infrastructure. It's more difficult to write applications if you touch the infrastructure. Every time I think block apps, that's what you were doing. You had some middleware, you made it easier.

**[18:11] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, that's right.

**[18:14] SPEAKER_02:** You have to insulate the application developer from the infrastructure. So I'd like to see more of that. I like to see more of these tools in the middle because that's what's going to allow apps to take off. I mean, that's how the Internet took

**[18:30] SPEAKER_00:** off,

**[18:32] SPEAKER_02:** because we had the WordPress of the world. It's like middleware and it made things easier to develop applications. Now we have AI now, obviously, and it's a bit of a shit disturber, but it's a good shit disturber, right, because you can take it to your advantage and you can fake middleware by interacting with something like Claude and you become the developer by just telling it what to do and you become basically the middleware on the fly. I'd like to see more of that. I don't know, has there been any apps that were developed, blockchain apps with Claude necessarily. I mean, we have user agents, but it's a personal thing. If you're smart and you got a user agent to do stuff for you, I can't use it myself. I have to do it, I have to reinvent it myself. Right.

**[19:49] SPEAKER_03:** There's been an uptick. I can say we're very heavy AI users at block apps and it just makes everything faster, even the review side, the security side. I kind of think we've Seen a couple of these DEFI hacks lately and I bet they're using the AI to do it. Scan all the old contracts and, and so on and find things people have missed. So it's super fast, it's sophisticated and to your point, it has made the interface layer in a way less essential.

**[20:22] SPEAKER_01:** Right.

**[20:22] SPEAKER_03:** Like the. IT just if you give it something, you know, after a couple tries, it will figure out how to write to the API and then. Yeah, you're talking to it in English, you know, that's ending up being. And so in some ways were short new ideas more than we're short coding execution capacity, you know, in the.

**[20:49] SPEAKER_02:** Exactly. I did something, I did an experiment last week after the SEC published their March guidance. I'm not sure if you saw that.

**[21:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yes. I saw the head of the SEC talking about this week too. He was jumping

**[21:07] SPEAKER_02:** the document and I, I turned it into a small mini LLM. I mean I, and I, I used to put some other documents because I, I followed the regulation. Yeah, quite a bit, as you know, and I gave it some instructions and, and I, I put it on the website called asksec.org and you can go and ask it any information about. Any information, any legal compliance information about any token, either current or future. So you would say assess the ETH token, for example, or assess the Canton token against the framework. That's all you have to say. And it's going to go and analyze the framework and give you an assessment and it's going to apply it on a chart and tell you where does it fit, whether it's a security or a commodity. You can even give it your design. Say, I'm thinking about developing a token that will do this and this and that, and it will. What do you think? So it's going to use that information against the SEC framework and give you an assessment. I'm surprised I didn't get a lot of hits on it. I'm following, but something like that, I think it's very valuable to AI. Absolutely.

**[22:32] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, like trying to figure out like, I mean, for a lot of times people have been complaining about, you know, blockchain ux. And I think one of the things we see is that it can make this a lot simpler because normally, you know, we, we've tried to do this with intents and other ways in the blockchain space, but normally what people want to do in their perception is very simple. But in blockchain it's like broken down into multiple transactions. So it could be like exchange this token for this token or acquire more of this token. And now AI can kind of act as that intermediary to simplify those steps.

**[23:13] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I mean one area that I think is ready for this is defi.

**[23:17] SPEAKER_01:** Oh yeah, absolutely.

**[23:18] SPEAKER_02:** I mean look at, I mean you, you've been on, on AAVE and Morpho. All of these defi. Like those user interfaces are quite, are not very, very friendly. I mean go, go and find, know what you're doing. Yeah, go and find the market. Yeah, go and find the market you want to borrow on or, or trade on. Yeah, it's, it's like, it's like you're looking at a spreadsheet. You have to squint a little bit and you have to look left and right and I mean, why can't I tell it? Give me the markets where I can take a loan with SD Eth. Yeah, I have usdc. That's it. And I want to see that instead you have to go and search and make sure it's the right one, it's not this one. And if you make a mistake then it. That, that's right. That's ripe for. I hope the next version, the next iterations of, of apps interfaces do that. That's what's.

**[24:22] SPEAKER_01:** I, I can tell you we're working very hard on that because you know, like we do think that I, I think Defi has produced many of the real innovations. But the, the limitation is that as you said, they're too complicated to use.

**[24:36] SPEAKER_02:** Like I've been saying, this AI is the new ui.

**[24:39] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah.

**[24:40] SPEAKER_02:** And nobody needs more better UI than

**[24:44] SPEAKER_01:** Crypto and Defi in particular because there

**[24:49] SPEAKER_02:** is a lot of traction right now and there are some small cases. Have you played with Banker B A, N, K R?

**[25:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I think it pinged us on X one time as I've checked it out a little bit.

**[25:04] SPEAKER_02:** It's a starting point. It's not too bad. You can say create a token. You can tell it, create a token with a billion units or something like that and it will do it for you. There was an app where you could do sports betting by just talking to it. Bracky sports. I'm not sure. I think they pivoted or they're not going to continue. But we need more of those because the interface is going to be more natural language. Yeah. More than just going to a website and figuring out where to click and clicking on a website is going to be a thing of the past, at least for the consumer.

**[25:54] SPEAKER_00:** Post app era is what I call it is just like applications, they're just going to go away. This sort of concept of very waterfall, kind of like, well, what's our market? What are the average users going to be like? What will their profiles be like? How, what kind of things might they want of complexity and simplicity? And then we're going to like map that out into a roadmap of features and milestones and then here you go. We've spent months building this website, building this app that we hope will meet the needs of some people. We've made up a lot of time. It just totally fails. And you've spent an incredible amount of time on it.

**[26:36] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, the website is going to be more in the background. The website is going to be the model.

**[26:43] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. Everything is an API now, even a website with AI. And it's interesting that it will all work in the user's favor, we hope. We got this very long era with the social media companies locking everyone's data in and so on and so forth. But now me personally, I operate a lot from either cursor or openclaw and just fetch the data from everywhere and keep it and it's very portable. Then it can translate very well from format to format, app to app and so on. I want to segue just interest of time. William, you got some good coverage and a little bit of controversy with your Ethereum valuation recently. So, you know, maybe, maybe we could walk through the thinking and you know how people might be thinking about Ethereum the wrong way.

**[27:42] SPEAKER_02:** Sure, yeah, yeah. I mean, what drove me to this is that I'm obsessed with having fundamentals drive valuations. And currently, as you know, in the, in the crypto space, almost everything that is not related to crypto drives the prices. You know, one day is a geopolitical situation somewhere in the world, another day it's interest rates, then it's the US dollar, then sometimes it's Nvidia. It's whatever, it's. It's always external factors that move the crypto because the market is liquidity driven, meaning that those that are driving the, the trading, it's either risk on or risk off. Either I have a bit more money or I don't have it. And crypto is always the first one to take the hit and it's the last one to recover. So we're getting both ends of the, you know, the short stick. It's not, it's not good. So imagine if we were valuing the tokens based on their fundamental value. So I started to look at the different sectors and it seems that I won't Talk too much about defi. But Defi is a bit more mature in having metrics at least. You can look at tvl, you can look at the Treasury. It means it's the strength of the balance sheet. TVL is the. It's like a. Sorry. TVL is like balance sheet. The treasury is like. Yeah, it's like the strength of this treasury that's important. And then you look at transactions, it's the number of users. So it shows that there's market fit. So you can put some numbers together for the Defi marketplaces. But then with Ethereum, let's jump on that to the Ethereum. Well, there's, there's Bitcoin, of course. Bitcoin is like gold, okay, Leave it alone. But Ethereum is very special. Ethereum is like infrastructure. It's like the Internet. And I, I looked at the Internet and how it was being valued and, and it turned out that there were models. There are some very credible studies from MIT and others that have looked at the Internet and tried to make put a value number on the Internet. And it was based on three different parts. The first part is look at the value of the companies that were created because of the Internet. So look at the Google, at the Amazon, the ebay, even Facebook, all of these companies that would not exist if we didn't have the Internet. Take that number. It's in the trillions of dollars. Okay? Second bucket is the value, like the Internet economy because we have all these interactions with these companies. How much is that contributing to the world economy? And it's been widely accepted that the Internet today contributes to 15% of the world GDP. And the world GDP is about $100 trillion. So imagine these are real numbers. And then the third bucket is what is called the consumer surplus. This is the benefits, the benefits we get for using the Internet in different services. And each segment has a value. Apparently the value, you know what the value of email is, is about $16,000 per year per user in the U.S. that's the value. That's what you would need to spend if you were not using it. Search is about five or six thousand dollars. So we are benefiting by using these services. So this is called the consumer surplus. So I'm taking that analogy and I want to apply it to, and I applied it to Ethereum and you can read that report that I wrote In December, about 50 pages on the Ethereum Market Research Center. Same thing with Ethereum, it's three buckets because it's also infrastructure. It has similar architectural layers as the as the Internet. And it is at the base level it is like TCP, ip, Ethereum. And if you look at the higher levels you have middleware like the L2s are like middleware if you think that way. And then you have enterprise, institution and the apps at the top. And what people forget is that the biggest monetization happens at the top, not at the bottom. The bottom enables the value to happen at the top, but the bottom layers, they don't capture all of the value. If you look at the value of the Internet itself is a lot less than the value of all of the companies that are built on the Internet and all of the GDP improvements and all of the consumer surplus that's a lot more than the Internet. And I think the same thing is going to happen with Ethereum. I wouldn't be upset if the Ethereum economy ends up being bigger than Ethereum. From a market cap perspective that would be a success because Ethereum will appreciate on a proportional basis and we're talking trillions of dollars. So Ethereum is not going to shrink because the economy on top of it is going to grow. It's the opposite. It's going to grow with it, but the economy on top of it is going to be trillions of dollars. And that's what we have to think about. So the three buckets are the same. There's the companies that exist because of Ethereum. There's many of them from the L2s, from the services and then there is the, the GDP equivalent. There's the flow, the flow of value between like stablecoin flow between the L1s and the L2s. The defy. There's a lot of money, there's trillions of dollars. I think it's approaching $2 trillion per month currently on Ethereum. That's the size of the GDP economy. It was 1.8 I think last month. And this is measurable, this is not science fiction, it is real. And then you have the trust surplus. So in the Internet world we had the consumer surplus. So I'm calling it the trust surplus. With Ethereum it's the things that we do and save money because we're not spending that money to give it to big intermediaries that cost a lot for compliance reasons. And there the numbers are not that huge yet. I'm estimating the trust surplus, look at the numbers, is between 50 to $150 net surplus per active user per year. So it's not huge, but it's a starting point. And that's based on about 20 to 30 million meaningful users per year. So it's a start. It's a start. So that's about. But then when you add it up, it's about 1 to 5 billion dollars of trust surplus per year. So it's getting somewhere. And then you capitalize that and you add that to the valuation of Ethereum. So I'm not pulling these numbers out of the air. And there is a model that is very grounded, which is the Internet. And the analogy is striking if you look at it and if you study it carefully. So based on those numbers, and the model gives us, like today, today, Ethereum should be valued at about $1 trillion, which is equivalent to $8,000 per token. This is today. It is vastly, vastly underpriced today. And we need to continue to educate the market about how to see Ethereum in the right framework. Because if you go and follow that same model over the next 10 years, then my model says that in 2035, Ethereum should be valued at $20 trillion. And that gives us a unit number of $166,000 per ETH in 10 years. If we continue on that same trajectory we're in. I'm not pulling these number out of the these numbers. There's a gradual progression when you hear people like Tom Lee and others say, oh, it's got to be this 60,000, whatever, 80,000. I'm not sure how they're getting those numbers, but my numbers are not that far from theirs. But at least I have a methodology to show you how I got to these numbers. I'm not pulling them out of the air. I'm extrapolating them based on the reality of today and based on the actual growth that is going on right now.

**[37:30] SPEAKER_00:** Do you think that low surplus number really speaks to the lack of, like, mature apps that are really, like, delivering absolute value over current services?

**[37:45] SPEAKER_02:** You mean there's not enough of them, perhaps?

**[37:48] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, there's not doing enough.

**[37:50] SPEAKER_02:** The thing is, like, right now, I will admit a lot of the adoption is with the institutions, and that tends to be a bit more invisible than visible because it's kind of business to business or it's between a business and some enabling service. I'll admit we need more consumer apps. We need definitely more decentralized apps. And I don't fault Vitalik for what you could read between the lines of some of his tweets in early January. He's not happy with the fact that we don't have a lot of decentralized apps that are following the cypherpunkish kind of movement. I'm not saying that we should have a lot of them necessarily totally cypherpunk, but at least going towards that direction, it won't be a bad thing to have user sovereignty. What's wrong with user sovereignty? What's wrong with owning your own data? What's wrong with signing on with Ethereum instead of with Google? These are the primitives we need to build on. I think we need more of those kinds of cases, but that doesn't mean we have to push down the institutions. No, let the institutions do what they're doing, but let's bring those ones up to that level. There's no need to push the institutions down and say, oh, it's a bad thing. No, I mean they both can grow, but let these, let's let the consumer apps move up. And that's the challenge right now. And I don't think there's a better blockchain than Ethereum that can do this because that's part of the ethos, that's part of the, of the native beliefs that the developers and the stakeholders and the stewards of the protocol believe in. And most other protocols. They want to make money. They think of the blockchain that they are responsible for as a SaaS, as a software, as a service. They think of it as driven by fees and revenue and that's what's going to make them successful. Like imagine if, like imagine if we value the Internet based on packet fees. I mean, that's the lowest, I mean, package fees, yeah, there are packages, sure, but that's not the value of the Internet. It's a lot higher above that. And blockchain fees is like packet fees. It's like garbage, it's commodity. It shouldn't be. The reason why you say my blockchain is generating a billion dollars per month so I can pay validators and put some of them in front of the line and so on. No, that's not, that's not, that's not what the blockchain is for. You don't, we don't value Amazon based on their shipping revenue or shipping costs. Yeah, there's lots of shipping costs involved with what Amazon is able to do, but that's a very low level type of activity. So that brings us to. Maybe you want to talk about my next book a little bit.

**[41:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, yes, yes.

**[41:35] SPEAKER_02:** We want to give us a little

**[41:37] SPEAKER_01:** preview because, I mean, you've always been one of the best thinkers in the Ethereum space, particularly around these issues, bringing in the history and understanding how institutions and different parties. So we know. We're really excited to hear about your new book, Trust Shift. Can you give us a little preview of it?

**[41:59] SPEAKER_02:** Sure, sure. I mean, I have the perspective like you have to have a depth of perspective. You can't get from there to here overnight or. And it takes a few years to understand, to have that. So it comes with a bit of experience. So, as you know, I wrote one of the first books about the business blockchain in 16 and I still involved obviously in the market. And I always wanted to write another book, but I wasn't inspired enough to write one until just recently. And it dawned on me, maybe six, four months ago to be exact, at the time I was writing this new valuation framework and it dawned on me that, yeah, there is something more we can talk about now in more detail. And it dawned on me that the promise of the blockchain was not going to be just about the movement of money. Maybe that was the act, the first act. So what I'm saying is right now, the second act of the blockchain is about the movement of trust. Because if you think about it, that is what, what we are doing. We are shifting the trust from the existing intermediaries to the new intermediaries in the same way that the Internet shifted a lot of the E commerce from the old intermediaries to the new intermediaries. What is Amazon? Amazon is a new intermediary. I mean they are intermediary. You cannot get rid of intermediaries. When you used to go to the bookstore, they were a kind of physical intermediary. Now Amazon is a virtual intermediary. So we need to see more virtual intermediaries that we will be able to rely on for these trust functions. And the way we're going to get there is by having a lot more native processes be on the blockchain. See the issue right now? See the blockchain. Is this going to be in the book? I'm going to give you a little bit of him, the blockchain, currently, I mean, the blockchain is a trust machine, right? We agree on that. But it's a trust machine for on chain data. On chain data is very important. The blockchain cannot and is not in its current architecture a truth machine for off chain reality. A lot of the activity I see today is we're taking off chain assets and putting them on the blockchain. It doesn't do much. It's like somebody said, it's like a souvenir. What can you do with it? If you still want to go back to the authorities that put the asset on their own books, and I can't move it except I talk to them. What have I done? We need to have a number of authorities that become on chain authorities. You talk about real world assets. We have used that term. These are not. I mean, maybe they are real world assets, but I want to see native assets. They have to be native, meaning that you can only move them on the blockchain. You cannot go back to the paper, you cannot go back to an old intermediary and say, no, I have to move my asset now the old way. If we don't cut that cord, we're not going to have innovation going forward. And you can't go to Amazon. There's no Amazon store where you can go buy a book on the Amazon store. You got to buy it online. There's no choice. There's no second option. So we need to see more online authorities that emerge where the source of truth, the source of ownership, the source of data, the source of getting to the bottom of a transfer, like asset transfer, it has to be on the blockchain and only on the blockchain for it to be a valid marketplace. And there are so many examples. So, yeah, eventually, initially we start by improving a process, but eventually we have to see those new intermediaries and that's what's missing. So the book is going to be a little bit about the present, but a lot about the future, about painting this future potential that we can imagine with. Pick any industry, it's going to have new intermediaries. At the same time, I want to see more consumer apps where the user has agency. You know, the good thing about Web3, the thing that Web2 did very well, it's like Hotel California, right? You check in, you cannot get out. Try to leave Facebook or to completely say, okay, I want my data, or to even just stop your service. Like, they bury that exit, like really very far somewhere in the menu. Like, you can't even find it. You have, you have to really, like, it's not a no hassle kind of exit.

**[47:32] SPEAKER_00:** Phone them up sometimes, and sometimes you

**[47:34] SPEAKER_02:** have to hold them and even, even the bank, like, they'll argue with you, like, why do you want to leave? Like my, my cell. Like, if you try switching cellular companies, they, they will, they want to know, they want to have a fight with you. Like, why do you want to leave? Right? So imagine like the difference what we have today with a wallet, Web3, you click, you're out the data you still have your wallet, you still have your money. But I want to have my data as well. So the Web3 wallet has not evolved into becoming a wallet of data, a wallet of identity, not just the wallet of currency. So if I'm plugged in, I mean, this is how it is today, right? You switch your account, you're into aave. It knows you're there. Boom. You show your assets, you turn it off, it's out, it's still with you, you still have them. Why can't we have that when you sign on to websites? Why can't I loan you my data? My data belongs to me. You're not the owner of my data. Yeah, I loan it to you. Let's do some transactions. But then if I do exit, I want a no hassle exit and I want to go somewhere else maybe. So that's the vision. These are the use cases. I want to talk about more in the book. And I coined the term trust shift in one word because my inspiration was power shift, if you remember, Alvin Toffler, the book Power Shift from the early mid-70s. And he. That was an amazing book. I mean, I reread it almost on an annual basis. I had the privilege to meet Alvin Toffler before his passing, and I spent three days with him. I was lucky enough. And he inspired me a lot. And he was an amazing thinker and futurist. So I was inspired to write, I hope to write, a book that will inspire others in the same way that the first one inspired a blunder of people even. Yes. Two days ago. What keeps me going is I meet people that tell me that the economist of the blockchain by reading the business blockchain. And up to today, 10 years later, I heard that two days ago. And that keeps me going and gets me a bit emotional sometimes.

**[50:19] SPEAKER_01:** Well, we thank you for all your contributions in the space. I mean, it's like you bring a rare combination of understanding the technical things, but also understanding the ramifications. It's always, you know, that's a kind of unique combination of the space. So thank you for joining us today. We really appreciate your time.

**[50:40] SPEAKER_02:** Thank you for having me. It was a pleasure.

**[50:42] SPEAKER_01:** Pleasure.

**[50:42] SPEAKER_02:** Okay.

**[50:42] SPEAKER_03:** When's the book roughly coming out?

**[50:44] SPEAKER_02:** Yes, the plan is to be out in September.

**[50:48] SPEAKER_01:** September, okay.

**[50:49] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I'm going to look for it

**[50:51] SPEAKER_01:** on the shelves in September.

**[50:52] SPEAKER_02:** I'm going to finish writing it in June. There's about a three months delay between the end of the book and the distribution because it's distributed by Simon and Schuster, so we're going to have good distribution and it'll go from there, hopefully.

**[51:08] SPEAKER_00:** Are you going to be sitting on a table in Mumbai for devcon signing copies?

**[51:14] SPEAKER_02:** I'm trying to get the Ethereum foundation to purchase a number of those books, to give them away to everybody. So maybe they'll hear, and I'm waiting to hear the confirmation. Hopefully they'll agree and we'll have a special edition. I want to do a custom edition for the Mumbai Attendees at DefConnect, and I hope it will happen.

**[51:42] SPEAKER_01:** Well, we're hoping it happens, too, but if not, we'll get our own copies. Have a great day. William, thank you again for your time.

**[51:50] SPEAKER_00:** Thanks so much.

**[51:52] SPEAKER_01:** Bye.

**[51:59] SPEAKER_00:** And stream.

