**[00:00] SPEAKER_01:** So hello and welcome to FDamber. We're going to have a little walk through of the Museum of Ethereum. So I'm Bob Summerwill, Head of Ecosystem at Strato.

**[00:12] SPEAKER_00:** Here we have two Kieren James-Lubin, CEO at Strato.

**[00:15] SPEAKER_01:** Okay, so the Museum of Ethereum has come together over the last few months. It was actually somebody at FDamber's idea is maybe we could have a museum and they ended up contacting me and it's like, oh, you've got the contact, great, we can put this together. So it's been a collaboration between myself and Jessica Angel, who is the creative director of FDamber. So here we are, here is the museum. Some lovely CRT TVs here. You'll see yourself walking around a little bit. And then we've got various sort of arty pieces, some background Ethereum-y things. There's a few sort of NFT-ish bits. I don't know what that is. Anyway, in we come. So what we've got here is, um, newer people only really often know about Vitalik and Joe maybe, and have this perception. Vitalik the boy genius, like, did everything and that was the story. But the fact is that Ethereum was always the work of many hands from the very earliest days. So, um, here I've got about 200 people identified who had some kind of contribution in these early years. Um, for historical reasons that the period kind of ends at the end of mid, in January 2018. But a lot of the other stuff here is really focusing on 2014, 2015. You know, the push from white paper to main cut. So this early period is, you know, everyone's volunteering, um, you know, with a pinky promise of maybe you'll get some tokens later for a network that may or may not launch. Um, apparently almost right up to the launch, you know, there were various people involved who were like, you know, this thing is not going to happen.

**[02:11] SPEAKER_00:** I think several people did the following calculation. We were looking at the commits mostly on the geth client. We're building the Haskell client at this time. And they kept pushing the launch date back by two weeks, two weeks. So we made a plot of the geth commits. And it launched within a few days of when you thought the commits would stop. So it's just very funny. So that was good for them. And someone else told me they did the same thing. Right. When the date kept getting moved, people were ready to know. But like, well, you know, do a little proprietary forecast model.

**[02:43] SPEAKER_01:** Like two weeks of all the outside, two whoops.

**[02:45] SPEAKER_00:** Two whoops.

**[02:46] SPEAKER_01:** Two whoops.

**[02:47] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[02:48] SPEAKER_01:** So yeah, during this here, the Ethereum journey began. Um, and, and yeah, so I mean, here's shipping Ethereum. This is Ethereum Foundation. So Ethereum Foundation was, was formed in July 2014. And then you had the, the crowd sale going through by September. And then, you know, this bunch of people, like they're mainly employees, right? You know, people, there was money from the crowd sale. So people would be hired. Um, you know, many of the volunteers from earlier were, were still around and kind of, you know, became, started getting paid at that point. Um, but, but yeah, through, through here in, in, through into 2015, it became apparent. The money was nearly running out, right? This was, was this thing even going to launch? Well, thanks.

**[03:35] SPEAKER_00:** Um, I've said before publicly, this was a good thing because it caused launch. Uh, they, before when the, the treasury was healthy, the scope kept expanding ad infinitum. They were trying to deliver on, you know, peer to peer networking, file storage, and the chain, and a bunch of different stuff. The scope protocols. And so, yeah. The wallet, the browser, the. The IDE. The IDE. Let's build, why not?

**[04:02] SPEAKER_01:** Let's build an IDE as well.

**[04:04] SPEAKER_00:** It was, yes. It was like, that was gone wild. Like if you're like, here's a slush fund and, uh, do what you want to do. The scope just expanded, but then they had to focus and chip something, get the token out there.

**[04:17] SPEAKER_01:** So, you have Kelly Backer here, who, Lars, uh, Lars Vadim and Wayne came in as, as directors. So, Lars worked at Rolls-Royce Vadim at the UN and Wayne was a sort of tech guy. And then you also had Ming Chan, who was the first executive director, uh, who came in. And Tung, her sister, who I met this morning for the very first time she was here, um, was the legal counsel. Um, so, Ming's reign was mixed, shall we say. Um, but we had two and a half years of that, where really you had a very minimal overhead. You know, it's like Ming, Ming and Vitalik, and, and the lawyer with the board. Um, and then you had a bunch of devs, so there was very little internal support. The website didn't, didn't change for two and a half years. There wasn't even a grants program at all. You put in Aya, who became the new ED, um, and the, the Infinite Garden began. Um, so, you know, I haven't, I haven't got really information to go down, because it's just, they're just too many. It's not really the scope. Um, but then in 2025, you had these changes where Aya went upstairs, and he had the two new co-EDs. So, I think the Infinite Garden ended a year ago. People will still use those memes, but we're not in the Infinite Garden anymore. Um, so my, my title there was Wartime CEO, really around Thomas, going, the poetry's nice and all, but how about we shift some features? How about we see this as a competitive landscape? And you've got to move. So, you know, something like privacy. Okay. You've got 40 people in a privacy team actually working on that. Um, Ethereum, uh, Ethereum as a company, as the prime sponsor of Bitcoin Expo 2014. So imagine that a Bitcoin conference and Ethereum company are the prime sponsor. And, uh, apparently a thousand t-shirts, you know, were given away. They're on the store, you know, for a shilling Ethereum. Um, notably this, this code on the back was, was pretty well known, but I think is in Mewtown. But at Swiss.

**[06:39] SPEAKER_00:** Okay.

**[06:39] SPEAKER_01:** So yeah, at Swiss was formed in February, 2014, and it was a for-profit company in Switzerland.

**[06:45] SPEAKER_00:** They didn't even realize that. Yeah. So they converted it to a foundation. They made, they shut down.

**[06:51] SPEAKER_01:** It was shut down. It was shut down. So, so yeah, you, through that period. So you had F Swiss, which was formed by Mewhine. Um, and a guy, I forget his name. Um, Anthony formed Ethereum Canada as well, because he, the thought was it would, it would operate out of Toronto. You know, like, you know, uh, Ethereum was, was, was, yeah, that's how it was that. Ethereum was one of N projects happening out of Bitcoin Decentral. Like, that's, that was the plan. But then very rapidly, some people, I think, mainly around Charles were investigating, uh, you know, other jurisdictions. And it's like, yeah, Switzerland, that's the one. Uh, you don't want to come out of North America and do a crown sale. It's like, you know, Han Gebers, who started, who took his fintech company, Molitas, to Zoom, and started Crypto Valley. It was July before the foundation got formed. Yeah. And prior to that, you just got, you just got these for profit companies. And so Taylor was not co-founder of the project, but he was a co-founder of the foundation. So when the foundation got formed, it was Taylor, Mihai, and Vitalik. So in 2022, um, Taylor released these onto Twitter. So, you know, very shortly into the project, it's like, right, we're going to launch Ethereum. So Vitalik was giving his talk, you know, introducing Ethereum. And then there were crowds of people around and afterwards, you know, all this excitement. And Anthony Diario had rented this, this house that, you know, was kind of a crash zone, hacker zone, where many of them got together for the first time. So you've got five of the eight here. You've got Charles Hoskinson now of, uh, Cardano, Gavin Wood now of Polkadot, Vitalik, Anthony, um, Joe Lubin at the back there. And this is Sandy Gary. Um, and this is another one, which is from Devcon Zero. So that was October of this year.

**[08:57] SPEAKER_00:** So part of my confusion on the other point, at some point, I think I had an Ethereum.org email. Right. It was pretty early. It was like April. I would have assumed that they had a foundation associated with the Ethereum. Not at all. They'll have just grabbed the domain. I think, I think like only some people were invited to Devcon. I don't know how they like decided.

**[09:19] SPEAKER_01:** It was the primarily people who were working for the foundation or for Act Dev. Yes. So as Dev was like those again, they, they were, they were for profit, maybe not for profit, but it's like, you've got these development places. So Berlin was where Gav's fortress Berlin was. Amsterdam, you've got Jeffrey Wilker and the Goat team. You know, talking to the Joel yesterday, not many people were actually in Amsterdam. That was it. It's a lot more remote that scene where Berlin, they were physically there. Um, you had like communication people in London, uh, who were there as well. We paid for that. Uh, and there were some people in Switzerland still at that point.

**[10:01] SPEAKER_02:** But largely that people actually ensue was really just those early times.

**[10:17] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, so the early days of Ethereum projects. So the website with lots of biographical detail on all of these people, um, gathering together a bunch of videos, articles, photos from all these times.

**[10:32] SPEAKER_02:** And then the other thing that we've got is these conversations. So now every, every two weeks, we're doing a new video release. So we've got them on these computers here.

**[10:53] SPEAKER_01:** It's just early daysoff.org. And it's, it's all sort of wiki style, right? So you can, you can go off and, uh, go off and explore, you know, follow the links at the bottom. You've got a bunch of backlinks as well. So wherever these are referenced, you can go off and explore. And then on the timeline, there you go. Cretto Valley, aforementioned, Johan Yevers. Um, and then the white papers, November and the launch here in January and so on. And so a link here to all of Taylor's photos. So you can, you can see all of these going through his timeline. So the Ethereum time machine, the intention is to give people a hands-on experience of what Ethereum was like in 2016. So these computers are actually all 2010 era original hardware. Um, the problem is if you, if you want to run that old software, uh, if you start up, cause these are original binaries that are on here, right? These are 10 year old original binaries. Um, the problem is if you start, uh, uh, uh, get a client that that's all, that's that's all. They won't actually manage to appear with anything because as well as the protocol itself updating the, the, the, the peer to peer, you know, discovery protocol has changed over time as well. So here we've got contemporary Lighthouse and Geth pairing. So those were 20, 25 and those can talk to a, uh, you know, a slightly older one from 2023 and that can talk to one from 20, 21, 20, 20, 16, 20, 15. Uh, and you can go all the way back down the line and end up, let's turn this on. Um, and you can basically end up with synced nodes as of 2016. So then phase two is blockchains never die. Right. Um, when you have a hard fork, it's just convention that everyone's like, right. The new one's Ethereum, right. We leave the old one behind. Um, but with the exception of ETC, where you had. Uh, a contentious chain split and both sides survive. Most updates, you, you just don't. It's just not, um, not problem. Anyway, so what I did is, uh, resurrected the Homestead chain. So Frontier was the very earliest protocol in 2020, 2015, sorry. Homestead was the next, but launched on Pi Day in the 2016, very geeky, 3, 3, 14, 14th of March. Um, so I rented a bunch of CPUs. So it started with 16, uh, 3090s, uh, rented hash. Um, um, you can see here a live sort of demo of, uh, of this chain of guests. It's actually completed and they've, you know, they've gone down the line here and there you go. So these are, these are up to date. Um, but yeah. So I mined the old chain. The problem is the difficulty at that point is the network difficulty in the world at the time. You know, all the miners that were mining at that time, that's the difficulty. So it took two days of 16 GPUs to mine the first block. But then you can see here, if you keep going and keep going, it does eventually like die down quite a lot. So this is sort of like January through the February timeline here. Starting with 16 GPUs, then eight, then one, then a strong CPU. And the goal, so it's crashing down by like 99.999% difficulty. This is tera hashes and giga hashes and mega hashes coming down. That's, that's a log graph. I did intend for the mining to be literally on these four laptops. And that can happen. The problem is you've got the difficulty bomb, which when you've got like no, right.

**[15:09] SPEAKER_00:** So that, yeah.

**[15:10] SPEAKER_01:** So the difficulty bomb was something that was introduced, like, I think from the very start of Ethereum of saying, as well as the normal difficulty adjustment, where it blocks are too slow, it makes it easier. If they're too fast, it makes it harder, right? So it's, you're wanting a consistent rate. Difficulty bomb was a, an addition on that. Basically saying, okay, we're also going to make the difficulty just sort of like go up over time. So that the blocks, the block times are really slowing down and it's grinding and it's like unusable. And that was intended to basically push the hard form. It's like, right.

**[15:48] SPEAKER_00:** You have to force the proof of stake switch.

**[15:51] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. To basically say, right. We're going to go through the stake and we're going to like force that transition by gimping the proof of work chain, basically. So, you know, that, that stuff was coming in. And it got reset three times, maybe.

**[16:10] SPEAKER_00:** So, what's up? So, well, we had to put this in for mainnet compatibility, but sometimes we have like an enterprise deployments. Right. And we're like, why are the blocks slowing now? And like, we had to put a flag into like, you know, difficulty bomb equals true or not.

**[16:25] SPEAKER_01:** The bomb was delayed a number of times. And actually, funnily enough, on ECC, there were two changes to that. So the first one was, it was a delay. Um, and the second, after a while, was a diffusion. So it was diffused and removed in ECC while later. Basically, because the extension has been to proof of stake forever. So you don't, you don't need that nudge. But that was an intentional sort of thing to sort of force. You can't just sit on the old one and it's going to keep going, right? It's getting screwed. You have to fork away if you want the things to survive. Um, but yeah, what you've got here, if you, if you look, is this is the mist wallet running. We've got a Gath node here. Um, I've actually got, I have got this mining. I just changed that today. This is mining as well. Um, as well as that one GPU. So actually the balance here should occasionally be popping up. But, but this was the, the first sort of like GUI wallet. Um, and so what you can do here is do a transaction. So we're going in the time machine back to 10 years ago to do a transaction with mist. So there you go, you know, pick your, so, um, yeah, make sure we, uh, we copy. So at this point, there wasn't like an address book thing in, in this. So you have to type in the hex here. Thankfully the cut and paste does just about work. So we've got 76 ether, picking them out. Okay. Okay. Then you annoyingly have to scroll right down to the bottom to find the sand.

**[18:01] SPEAKER_00:** Oh yes. And I can add the data. Yeah.

**[18:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. You can stick, you want to stick a bit of, uh, a bit of something in. I think it has to be like a hex.

**[18:11] SPEAKER_00:** Oh, it has to be hex.

**[18:12] SPEAKER_01:** I think so. Yeah. Just some thing. There you go. Dead beef. Right. So we, we've got this pop up and then the, the password is museum.

**[18:23] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[18:25] SPEAKER_01:** Right. And then you sit and shit yourself. If you, if you scroll down to the bottom, there is a, there's a list of transactions. So you should see a grayed out pending one here. So the average. All right. So 20 second average block time. That should go to 66 and 104. Yeah. Doo, doo, doo. One confirmation. 66, 104. There we go. We have transacted. Now, there you go. Um, at some point I'd like to see if somebody with some DAO tokens would like to, you know,

**[19:04] SPEAKER_00:** to, to, to share them back if they have them at this point.

**[19:07] SPEAKER_01:** That would have time. It's hilarious. Yeah. Right. And you have missed coin as well. Um, I don't know when the other ERC-20 ones started. Um, there is GAV coins. You know, there are these relic coin people who like these, these resurrected ancient, uh, deployments, some of which were pre ERC-20. So they have, they're, they're wrapped. But yeah, you can get wrapped GAV coins. You can text it around. Oh, sure. Why not? Um, there is a thing in here for doing, that, that was just a, uh, you know, just a normal account, but you can do, you can create a small one. I think I did in here is, uh, there is a, there is a wallet one. So that is not just a, uh, uh, you know, and, uh, a user controlled. It is actually a deployment. Um, anyway, there we go. That's the, that's the time machine. Look. Time machine. And then the final piece here. Well, say final. So you do this as well. Um, so the intention here was that you, you got this timeline of things that happened in the years. And if you, if you touch these globes, they cycle through the colors. And when you got, went to magenta, one of them would light up. Anyway, the, the electronics didn't work and it's screwed for that one. And then we just got TV with small videos here, which also seems to have gone. So nevermind. But, but yeah. So early days of Ethereum dot dot F has got all the website content. Um, for the time machine here, um, it's on my GitHub. So Bob, some will flash there in time machine. And, uh, I think, I think that's about it.

**[21:06] SPEAKER_00:** I, uh, there's always, uh, I know I owe, like you gotta comb through those little emails. Uh, there's a lot that happened that I just forgot entirely.

**[21:18] SPEAKER_01:** Right.

**[21:19] SPEAKER_00:** But, um, yeah, it's, uh, I think I'm definitely appropriate here, uh, here at ETH Denver. And, um, um, it came together sort of better than I thought it would.

**[21:31] SPEAKER_01:** It was only like a couple of days, maybe the day before this opened, I think. That I first did the, okay, I've got the money in the midst and they work.

**[21:41] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[21:41] SPEAKER_01:** It's like they were saints, but it's, you know, is it gonna work? Can they, can they do that? Yeah. And sadly, the max did not quite worse. Windows is very, very backwards compatible. Map.

**[21:54] SPEAKER_00:** Phenomenal. Anyway, there we go. Are you safe with Ethereum?

**[22:00] SPEAKER_01:** Early days. Yes.

**[22:02] SPEAKER_UNKNOWN:** Um. Yeah. Here we come from m? But basically it's really cool.

