**[00:03] SPEAKER_00:** Hello and welcome to early days of Ethereum. So we're here today with Alex Baragh Sashi, who we both worked together for a short time on C team and he focused on, on Solidity and Ewasm and Team Ypsilon. So very good to have you. How are you doing?

**[00:28] SPEAKER_01:** Thank you Bob for having me. Just, just adjusting the video a tiny bit. Doing well.

**[00:36] SPEAKER_00:** Good, good, good. So, I mean, how did your Ethereum journey start? How did you, how did you, you know, get involved or what were you doing beforehand?

**[00:49] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it goes back quite a. Quite some time. So originally I've been involved with open source like way before Ethereum in the multimedia sector. So I've been like an early contributor to Mplayer and ffmpeg. I'm pretty sure FFMPEG is something people still are familiar with, but Mplayer, you know, it's, it's a really old project. So this happens quite some time ago and that was really interesting and successful and a lot of it was centered around optimizations. Right. You had to make sure that given the hardware, everything actually works. So I think that kind of set me up towards being really interested in open source and optimizing things. Then I had corporate stints, et cetera. But I think the embedded line did stay for a long time. And then jumping forward at some point I ended up looking into Bitcoin. So that was around like 2011, 2012.

**[01:57] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right.

**[01:59] SPEAKER_01:** Well, funnily enough, or annoyingly enough, I did have friends who were checking it out right when it came out and I did try it not so long after, but I couldn't compile it because I was using like an early Mac and QT was, you know, C and QT was just failing. So I just given up I think at the time. Anyway, you know, a few years later I did get into it and it was definitely very interesting. My first like main project was creating a software wallet for Android which was using the Stratum Protocol and Bouncy Castle for the crypto side. And this kind of led me towards wanting to create a hardware wallet. So I had like a co founder and we had like small startup, but it was really early, so this was like 2014ish, so it was really early. We never actually released it. We had functioning prototypes and then we split up and my co founder was, he was in the bitcoin space and he was doing hackathons and I joined his, I don't know, second hackathon, which was at the time the biggest crypto hackathon in Europe. So it was 2015 and that's where I really learned about Ethereum. I mean, I think I did hear about it before and I was working on some Bitcoin ideas and at a hackathon we did like a crowdfunding platform on Ethereum. So we kind of hit all the problems, you know, onboarding on ramping. And definitely the big question of can any of these contracts act on their own or they need to be triggered. Right. That was like a key problem, right? And also getting data into like oracles, so, you know, they had all the, all the pain points. And this also made me realize that I was trying to build on Bitcoin and I needed to build pretty much all of this infra. So I shifted to Ethereum and tried to build the project I wanted on Ethereum, which wasn't. So we're speaking like November 2015. October, November 2015. So I ended up building infra on Ethereum for building my dapp. And that meant I wrote Ethereum JS Wallet and abi and yeah, I think these two at that time, but Basically all the JavaScript tools beyond the VM. So Ethereum JS VM existed, but not much beyond that. So I wrote the Wallet stuff, which ended up being used later by Metamask and a bunch of other projects, right? And I made these open source from the get go because you know that that was the ethos, the predominant ethos at the time. So I ended up voluntarily contributing to Ethereum js. And for my project I also wrote solidity contracts and I found like big bugs in the compiler at the time. So it was like 0.1, 1.1, 1.2 or something like that, right? The one big bug I remember because it took me, it was really annoying to figure out. So I had like a. I needed to convert either. I think I needed to convert an address to like a hexadecimal string and you would just have a for loop going from the beginning. And I can't recall the complete bug in extreme detail, but the problem was if you looped forward and we're writing, it was overwriting, I think the, the, the previous character as well. So the, the workaround was to loop backwards, right? And you know, I got my stuff working, but I kept filing bugs on Solidity and at the time it was really just like a person or person and a half working on it. So nobody actually fixed those bugs. And I ended up trying to fix them myself. And these two, reporting the bugs to solidity and contributing Ethereum JS kind of Led me towards being invited to just join both of those teams and this was like early 2016 when I ended up basically going full time in contributing to both.

**[06:42] SPEAKER_00:** So I, I was looking and it was, it's January 2016. Was your, was your start date there? So.

**[06:50] SPEAKER_01:** Well, it's. Yeah, I think it's a bit more complicated. Oh yeah, I think like end of 2015 I pushed those Ethereum things as a volunteer.

**[06:59] SPEAKER_00:** I see. Yeah, yeah, this was in terms of the ef, I mean.

**[07:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think officially, officially I've started. It was actually June or something but in practice I worked with and it was on me, but I was, you know, basically just a volunteer. Full time volunteer until that point, but working with both teams. You know, I mean the teams were just like one or two people each,

**[07:27] SPEAKER_00:** so. So you had Christian. Right, Weisner leading. Well, both the Solidity and the other. The other C parts. Right. It was all kind of a bit mangled together and yeah, like we've been saying this, there was left Harris had been. Had been doing earlier work on. On Solidity and there's another guy and it's really bugging me now who, who was doing some work. He was actually, he was actually working for like Eris Monax and they kind of lent him in. I will, I'll find his name later. Where was the hackathon?

**[08:21] SPEAKER_01:** That was in Dublin.

**[08:22] SPEAKER_00:** That was a Dublin. What was that one called? Can you remember what it was called?

**[08:29] SPEAKER_01:** No, no, I mean I could look it up but yeah, I think it's. I don't know. Yeah, I don't know but it was. Hackathons were really popular at the time and in the same building prior to it there have been other kind of hackathons, including hardware hackathons.

**[08:51] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[08:53] SPEAKER_01:** And I think the year leading to like the crypto hackathon there, like year and a half, I participated in pretty much every single one of those and. Right, that was, that was good fun. Yeah, it was the heck of building

**[09:07] SPEAKER_00:** and on that JavaScript side. So was it just Martin Beasley or were there others working on that as well?

**[09:17] SPEAKER_01:** Good question. I think it was like a really. It was kind of like turbulent something. Martin was the maintainer and, and he started like most of it. But then you had Yuri Matthias working on, right, the Embark. Well, it had a different name at the time.

**[09:40] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[09:41] SPEAKER_01:** Basically just like an RPC server, you know, like a simulator maybe Eater Sim was the name or something like that. And then later there were, there were the. What was the prediction market, the first one, Auger Or. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I'm not sure whether Gnosis or Augur were first, but the Auger guys, Jack, I believe they also had like. Yeah, they also had like an RPC client and there were. There were some disagreements around us. So I think Yuri at some point dropped out and those became. Eventually that code base became Truffle. So that was like one code base and then a lot of the other, I think initially was a monorepo and then like Ethereum JS was a monorepo with the VM and some of the RLP stuff, and it got split into its own org and it ended up with like 50 or 100 repositories for each of the different parts. A lot of the other parts regarding the, like Web3js, well, it wasn't. I don't think it was Web3js at the time, but an alternative, because the Web3js came from the Mist team, if I remember correctly. But there was an alternative version which was basically worked on by the Metamask people.

**[11:14] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think the earliest web 3js was Fabian Vogel Stella, who built that one out.

**[11:25] SPEAKER_01:** So this wasn't web3js, but similar functionality within Ethereum JS and Kumavis and Dan were working on that. So I think backtracking, I would say it was maybe this community of 4 to 6 ish people on Ethereum JS, Martin mostly on the VM and the core sections. And then you had the Metamask team and Yuri and Augur. So it was like maybe the set of contributors. And then I was contributing as well. Oh, and one more person, Nick Dodson, was also doing a bunch of different, smaller projects there. Well, actually he had a wallet before I wrote one, but I think I found something confusing in it. So I wrote my own. Yeah. And I think generally. So I contributed to both in parallel. And I think on Ethereum JS at some point we kind of moved on to like E. WASM research. So that kind of took a lot of my time. And next to it, yeah, I mean, solidity was, was also taking place. I would say it's. It's hard to remember, but I would say mostly, you know, like a 50, 50 split between the two, but probably, you know, some, some weeks maybe a much higher preference for one or the other.

**[13:03] SPEAKER_00:** And. And I was just looking back through devcon talks that you'd given. So the first one was. Was in Shanghai for Devcon 2, which was out about Mango, and that was a, A very interesting project.

**[13:21] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah. I don't Remember how, how that came about. But I mean, obviously I was tracking a lot of the, the projects, you know, in the space. And yeah, I think the Ethereum JS team was pretty close to Protocol Labs. I'm not sure if it was called Protocol Labs at the time, but basically IPFs, like the entire Ethereum JavaScript Ethereum ecosystem was really interconnected. And I also kept an eye on Swarm, right. And Swarm was still part of Go Ethereum at the time. And it just seemed natural that why do we use a centralized service when we have all of these building blocks? So I did a quick prototype and I wasn't the first one with the idea of having a decentralized Git. I mean Git by design is kind of distributed and decentralized, but we ended up putting it onto a centralized service. But I do remember when working on Mango like one of the prior existing solutions were putting it into Torrent, there was like a Git Torrent version

**[14:49] SPEAKER_00:** Mango. I don't know how you describe it. Is that a plugin for Git that allowed you to push to IPFS or Swarm? Is it plugin? How would you describe it?

**[15:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean as I said, Git has been designed from the get go to be kind of distributed, decentralized and even the command line tools are kind of extensible. So when you choose a transport medium, which has been mostly SSH with like GitHub, then the Git CLI selects the right tool and if you use a different transparent medium and that's decided by the URL you put in, you can just install your own tool. So I had like a Mango tool and if you use a URL for get with Mango colon, then it just hooked it up. And those tools have only the responsibility to push and pull. Everything else still remains in Git.

**[15:54] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[15:55] SPEAKER_01:** So it's really lightweight.

**[16:00] SPEAKER_00:** And have you, have you. What are your memories of devcon too?

**[16:06] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, maybe for the audience, like, you know, we talked with Mango and git and it's not clear what the hell it is, but the idea was to basically use Ethereum and swarm to replace GitHub. And the way it worked, there was a contract. I mean you basically just push the contract and instance of the contract and the repository URL was the address of the contract. And this was before ens, you know, after ens you could just use domains for it. And on the contract the only thing it did on the pool side, it just read the last hash from the contract and then got all the actual data from Swarm or ipfs but I believe maybe the first version or the only version I did just use Swarm. I think both. I mean the repository is public and on the push side the only cost you had to bear is just push a hash to the contract. So it was fairly cheap. And yeah, I think the only this was before pinning existed. So you really have to make sure that the data actually is accessible. Right. Because the only thing on the chain is just a hashtag. And yeah, I mean it was, it was really exciting. I really. And I had a lot more ideas towards actually replacing or providing a functionality similar to GitHub but I was in lack of time and ended up working on EWASM and Solidity. But then this idea, I mean not Mango specifically, but this problem set has been picked up by multiple projects over the years. Yeah, I think in terms of like DEFCON 2. It felt crazy I think because the, the main room was like a thousand people, like 1200. And I actually had a talk with Mango there, you know, in front of 1200 people. And I did watch DEFCON 1 and I did have the opportunity to go because I had some people I met at the hackathon going. But I felt like I would be an imposter.

**[18:36] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[18:37] SPEAKER_01:** I only learned about it, I mean defcon one was a week after the hackathon or so. And you know, I only really done stuff on Ethereum like a week prior to DEFCON 1. So I didn't go. But I did watch like most of the talks. And compared to that DEFCON 2 has been on a way different skill. Right. In terms of attendance and by the time of DEFCON 2 I worked in the ecosystem like closer to a year. Defcon 2 was in September and all of it has been remote. So it was definitely a lot of fun meeting all the people I worked with during those nine plus months. And everybody was super excited. The entire ecosystem was really excited. You know, despite the challenges we had during the year and then the big challenge we had during defcon, right we had the Shanghai attacks. So that's definitely one memorable memory. You know the, the like half of the, the EF and the, the client devs basically just being smashed in a boardroom in the same building where DEFCON was held. There was like a giant atrium and one side of the atrium was the, the conference hall. The other side was basically a hotel and maybe like four floors above where the, the boardroom was. And so from the room it over saw the atrium. So from the room, you know, people were hacking and trying to, to fix the Network. You could see that the conference down there. And, you know, you were so close, but yet so far.

**[20:25] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, because, I mean, that was on the first morning, right. Just before things were starting. I mean, I. I was looking at the video of that opening session, and so Ming just got started and it was like, vitalik will be coming soon and she's starting and he. He runs on a little bit later. But yeah, that. So that was the. The Shanghai attacks of. Of the network being. Denial of Service attacked and we. Earlier that year you'd had, you know, the Dow and the DOW fork as well. That was all fairly fresh coming into that conference.

**[21:11] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, exactly. I mean, it. Yeah. I mean, that year kind of set you up to. Yeah. Expect anything and everything, you know, the worst times. Yeah, yeah, it was. It was an eventful year.

**[21:27] SPEAKER_00:** That's right. And. And that was my first time in Shanghai. I don't know. And in China in general. I don't know if you. If that was the same for you as well.

**[21:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it was the first. Yeah, it was. Yeah. I mean, I discussed it with a number of people and friends. The question always comes up, you know, which is your favorite defcon. And I just cannot. I've been thinking about it, but I cannot really point towards a single one. You know, each of them had their own interesting parts to it. But yeah, I mean, DEFCON Shanghai definitely has to be up there, you know, with all of that happening.

**[22:10] SPEAKER_00:** Absolutely. So, I mean, you know, looking forward again at your. At your DEFCON 3 talks in. In. So that was in Cancun, the. The following year, there was. There was a. A panel called Evolving the evm. And you also had a talk about Julia, which later became Yule.

**[22:39] SPEAKER_01:** So.

**[22:40] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. How. How. How did things evolve over. Over that year for you in terms of. In terms of your focus?

**[22:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think. I think in Ethereum js, we. We kind of, as I mentioned, shifted focus towards something called ewasm, which basically, you know, I mean, up until that point, evm and you know, still to date, EVM has been the virtual machine. But Martin has been looking into webassembly and how it could be applied. And I think he started looking into that even, like end of 2015, like pretty soon after. Webassembly was more than an idea. And I think during that year. Yeah, I think. I think August. Let me check, because this bothers me now. I think August 2016. So before DEFCON, we already worked on E. Wasm. I mean, Martin definitely did, but me as well, I'm just looking at one of the repositories.

**[24:01] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean, I think certainly through 2016. So I remember also some discussion about, you know, looking at other alternatives as well, like. Like the JVM as a potential. And I don't. Maybe even RISC V possibly as far back as then I think it was beginning. But certainly Webassembly, you know, took took the lead quite, quite quickly.

**[24:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think JVM was definitely looked into. I mean all of these different systems. Webassembly had a good reasoning. So I think at the time. Yeah, I mean I have this repository called HERA which was basically the VM which plugged into cpp, Ethereum, the. Well, was it called Aleph at the time? But any case, I think it went back.

**[25:06] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it went back to Aleph later I think.

**[25:11] SPEAKER_01:** I think eventually. Oh yeah, yeah, I think it was eleft when it was abandoned. So yeah, by Shanghai I was already working on the. It was in VM stuff and I do remember that the. Etc which was called adcon at the time, which was probably April, March, April and 2017. We had a, we had a presentation about EWASM and I think at DEFCON 2, Martin had one of it EWASM as well, or maybe both of us, I can't remember. But we had a good reasoning while WebAssembly was a good contender, which was, you know, webassembly was supposed to be in the browsers, which it is. And people were really excited about light clients at the time already. So all of the light client protocol stuff was operational and operational to an extent. And the vision we had with the WebAssembly stuff is that you would have a light client on your phone so you wouldn't rely on any of the third parties. You would just have everything there. And WebAssembly would be native to your phone because the browsers have it. I think this was the core motivation for doing it. And there were other points which became more contentious and more debated. Whether you want full control over the VM or you want to rely on someone else and then by relying on some others also invite a much broader community into that. So WebAssembly would be something where a much broader community contributes to. And we don't need to do everything, we just need to do our part. And this, I think this idea became contentious at some point that we do want to control everything. And you know, that's why I suppose the EVM remained in charge. But yeah, I mean this, this has been a. This battle of the VMs has been ongoing. I guess it's on a kind of on a pause now, or maybe in a different direction, but you know, it has been ongoing since 2015. 16.

**[27:46] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I was looking for your DEVCON talk. Sorry, EDCON talk. So that was March 2017. He gave that talk and then DEFCON 3 was, was November. So that'll be another, you know, another seven months later.

**[28:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so I would say 2017 has been spent mostly in the. The theme of webassembly on both sides. On the solidity side, you mentioned Yule, which originally was called Julia with a J and then Julia with an I. And then you will eventually like one story. Was it there or was it Prague? Because I think it was maybe renamed after Prague. No, it's. Yeah, it has been such a long time, but I think it maybe has been Cancun, where the talk was with Yulia and one of the contributors, or maybe core authors to the Julia or Julia language was also attending and. Or maybe just a person who used it, I don't remember. And they asked, so have you heard about Julia? And you know, why do you want to name it the same? And I mean, I was aware, but you know, in the team we had to come to an agreement what the name should be.

**[29:14] SPEAKER_00:** That's another programming language, is it?

**[29:17] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. The reason for Yule, I think at least two main reasons. One, the way the compiler has been built prior to that, which is still the case, is it's like really a single piece of code and not much separation exists between the stages, which was good enough for a prototype, but became pretty big of a burden over time in terms of extending it, optimizing it, etc. And even bigger of a hindrance to target different bytecodes, to target webassembly. In the original architecture of the compiler, it was pretty much impossible on a high level, how compilers operate, you can separate three different stages, but obviously in practice this can become way more complex and you can have many more layers and some layers overlap and you can have big arguments. But in general you would have something called the front end, then like a middle end or middleware and then a back end. The main purpose of the front end is to parse the language, the source code you provided, and build up something of internal representation, which could be many different things. In many cases it's something called an AST abstract syntax tree, which is just an internal representation of what you have typed on the middle, where you could then do a lot of type checking, resolutions, imports, doing transformations. You could even transform it into a different language or multiple representations the backend would be the last stage where you actually target the machine you're looking at. So in our case, the evm. Right. And you could also do optimizations specific to the EVM at that stage. The solid compiler kind of had the middleware, the middle end at the back end mixed into a single one. And it was okay for evm, but yeah, it was really limiting us. And Yule became. Or the goal of the Yule language was to be kind of like this middleware or it's called an intermediate representation. And you could have many different intermediate representations geared towards different goals, but Solidity only had one. And I mentioned that Solidity, the compiler still has like the old ways. We added Yule and yeah, I mean we just call it the IR via ir. So both options still exist in a compiler. We did had yield targeting ewasm and all of this was operational. That has been removed for quite some time now. But 2017 has been the year of a lot of the work on, you know, Yule and these improvements on Solidity as well, as well as the ewasm. I don't remember whether it took us a lot of the time in 2017 or like early 2018. So once we did, you know, we had. I mean, designing Yule is not really hard. It is a very simple language and implementing those basic things were simple. The one piece in the compiler which always has been very complex is the ABI encoding decoding. The first bigger project we had was rewriting or writing a new version of the encoder decoder ABI encoder decoder in Yule that was still hooked up into the old pipeline. And then later we had the full brand new pipeline. But I think that was like the biggest task in 2017. I mean, next to it, I think it was the year end of 2017 when we hired, or maybe it was 18 we hired Leo. And I think it was the time when we started to actually expand the team and hire a lot more people. But Leo was like one of the first ones and his main goal was to work on formal verification. So there was like another area Solidity worked quite a bit on. And even before that we had like a different formal verification framework which was dropped and Yoichi was the one working on it the year prior to that. So I'm not sure where Yoichi left, but maybe around during 2017. Yeah, my memory is so hazy, like so much has taken place. And I think in 2017, next to all of these, I also worked on, on the EVM, I think 17 was the time when I started to participate like on every single orcure devs. And I think the need came from Solidity to make some of the EIP proposals I had. I mean, over the years I made I think a lot of them, but the ones which actually got accepted and went live in 2017 were maybe, I think the revert and the invalid opcode and the bit shifting and these were really driven by needs we have seen in Solidity. Yeah. So Yeah, I think 17 was the year where I really got into all core devs and, and which kind of set me up for the. For the years after being this person who. Who actually, you know, talks to basically every single layer. You know, I was talking to end users, like frameworks. What was the name of the. I mean Hardhat was one of them at the time. Truffle was another one. Right. And going down to the vm, so, you know, from basically the VM upwards, every single layer attached. And I also worked on like hobby Dapps, so I think I was in like a good position to kind of an understanding of what the pain points are. And yeah, I think that was my turn in 2017.

**[36:24] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, coming into 2017 there and I, I guess saying about the EWASM, so I mean, at that point it was. You'd got F 2.0, right. Was. Was this thought that you were going to have, you know, multiple, multiple shards and then each of those could have different execution environments. Right.

**[36:51] SPEAKER_01:** So I think that was. That was later. It was 18 or maybe. Yeah, I don't fully remember because at some point I think the ewasm stuff wasn't E 2.0 to begin with. It was the idea was to have it parallel to EVM. And then. Well, the core idea in 16 was to replace the EVM and have a translator which translates EVM to E WASM. And we actually had this tool initially it was just a tool and then we compiled a VM to WASM and you could just run an EVM within WASM itself. So that was like the original idea, just replace EVM fully. And I mean that didn't happen. And then parallel to that, at some point the work on proof of stake, you know, started.

**[38:01] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And something I Remember, sorry, from Devcon3, is that you had, you know, you had this panel with yourself, Greg Martin and Christian. I think it was just the four of you. And. And the thing I remember specifically is you'd got. Greg had his talk about, you know, EVM 1.5, making it raw with the cars or what have you. And then you had Martin, I think, talking about E. Wasm, but both of them were already out of the ef it wasn't announced but. But both of them had. Had actually already left at. At the point of DEFCON 3. So it certainly felt to me at that point, you know, you've got this real lack of certainty about what was going to be next on that execution side. I remember the. The panel felt very disorganized as well, as though none of you talked to each other before, you know.

**[39:06] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah.

**[39:07] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, before that things would go.

**[39:09] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean, in terms of the. The panel itself, I mean, we definitely, you know, each of us knew each other. Right. And we worked together and I mean,

**[39:17] SPEAKER_00:** in terms of saying what you were going to be talking about on the day, it found you felt you'd got very different thoughts or visions of what might be next.

**[39:25] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I don't think we even had a moderator. Right. And I mean, certainly no. No pre discussed questions, but that was the way things went then. Right. And I don't. Was that the one where we had now where we're sitting like on the.

**[39:40] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah. Just squatting down, sitting down on the steps.

**[39:44] SPEAKER_01:** I think that was because we didn't have enough chairs for the number of people. Right. And we didn't want anybody to just stand. Yeah. I mean, it just gives you like an insight into how things, you know, were kind of operating. Even though you had so many attendees and the ecosystem was quite big already, it was still kind of like, you know, like a small. I don't know, I mean, you could say like a small friend group or. But more like, you know, like a hacker space or something. Right. Not much structure and. Yeah, I mean, the EVM 1.5 stuff from Greg was trying to basically put more structure into the EVM control flow. And. Yeah, I mean, at the time, you know, Martin and I. And I think even solidity was more towards. I mean, it still kind of felt like maybe webassembly going to happen. Right. But parallel to that, Greg was working on, you know, his version of like the EVM changes. And DefContree was the one in Cancun, right?

**[40:59] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[40:59] SPEAKER_01:** And as you said, it was kind of. There was kind of like a limbo of who even going to work on any of these. But it was the time we kind of reassembled the WASM team and we started like early 2018 with a much bigger team having the single goal of actually shipping. Shipping. It wasn't. So that was the team for 2018 and I think that the main work, I think the proof of stake work already took place in 2017, but 2018, when, when it, you know, it got like rocket fuel and the proof of stake research team, you know, became bigger. Initially it was, I remember there was like a contract and they were in Viper maybe and there was some Python client and you know, there was no Beacon Chain. It was just something on, on Mainnet. And then at some point it, it kind of moved towards this separate network called Beacon Chain due to some technical constraints, I believe. And maybe once a decision was made, then there was a lot more freedom to design stuff. Right. Once it's like a separate chain. And given that freedom, I think that's when the sharding ideas came in and that's when the discussion shifted from maybe we shouldn't try to replace the EVM and patch it. Patch wasm onto the, you know, onto the mainnet rather, why not create like this, this new execution environment. They were called execution environments on, on the Beacon chain. Maybe it was called E 2.0 as you said at the time, and not the Beacon chain. And Beacon Chain came later. But yeah, we had so many names.

**[43:05] SPEAKER_00:** I mean the versions, like they were just all over the place. But yeah, I think at that time it was sort of like 1.5 was just, you know, an EVM evolution and then 2 was. Well, there's various different things. I mean, I think, I think I was Looking back, Ethereum 2.0 was actually on a whiteboard before the foundation even existed. You know, back in 2014 it was like, right, we're gonna have Ethereum one is like the, you know, minimal, minimal shipped version. And then it was like, right, then we're going to have a working Mist was maybe a definition of a 2.0 was, was kind of a, you know, sort of a full stack thing. But yeah, it changed an awful lot over the, over the, over the time.

**[43:56] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. What was the 2.0 at the time? More in towards, you know, this trinity of. Well, it was Ethereum. You know, maybe it wasn't called Swarm, but maybe it was and then.

**[44:09] SPEAKER_00:** No, it was, it was Swarm and Whisper from the very start. But, but I mean the other thing that you had in terms of those names were Frontier, Homestead, Metropolis and Serenity. You know those, those were names that you had from really quite early. And, and I think on that timeline the Metropolis was like mist and visual tooling. And then I think Serenity was, you know, proof of stake and, and everything else.

**[44:49] SPEAKER_01:** Right, yeah, yeah, I think it was still called Serenity as well. Right. When like the proof of stake stuff. Sorry. So when it was discussed during those years, I think was people kept the name Serenity. And then at some point, some point, someone came up with the beacon chain naming idea and that's when it shifted. But yeah, I think initially the idea once it was like this separate chain and then having shards, that one of the shards or Shard zero would be mainnet and that's the only place where EVM would live. And then you could have WASM and other stuff elsewhere. It would be more like. It would be heterogeneous and you could have anything you wanted. At some point that shifted towards. It has to be homogeneous shards. Everything has to be the same. So let's know do wasm. We also did some research in there to. I think like one of the challenges was like scheduling even between the shards. So one research we had is on. I don't remember the terms, you know, but maybe it was called the Beacon chain and the shards would be separate, but like in this core element which would manage scheduling, that we would put WASM there. And that's like the only, only place we have any kind of execution. And the rest is up to whoever runs the shard. And these ideas of what DAS today is, these ideas were around that all of these shards you wouldn't actually need to store and provide everything. You would just have kind of like proofs and you could reconstitute. And then obviously, if you look back at history, this execution and shards, they didn't actually happen. I do remember at. Oh, there was. There was Osaka, but you know, maybe like one other project around the time. Maybe this was 2018. Yeah, just backtracking. So like in 2015, 2016, you had the state channels, right? Yeah, yeah, like Raiden. And then at some point, I think that was. There was maybe 18, something called Plasma came about. Like, you know, like a State channels 2.0. And I think the Optimism team, which wasn't called Optimism, maybe it wasn't called at the time they worked. They worked on Plasma. And then I do remember they had. Maybe it was Osaka, but that's where they had like this new version. And I think after that was roughly the time when this discussion of L2s started, you know, as opposed to having shards.

**[48:08] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right.

**[48:09] SPEAKER_01:** And once that got like a foothold, I think that was the point where execution on. On the beacon chain was. Was kind of not a discussion anymore.

**[48:20] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right. I mean, I'm looking back here at Defcon4. So Defcon4 was in Prague in 2018. So there was a talk just e WASM, Ethereum Flavored Web assembly and Ethereum 2.0. And there's a gigantic list of speakers here. So there's yourself, G. Ballet, Pavl, Hugo De la Cruz, who I don't think I've ever heard of, Casey Detrio, Paul Darzanski, Jake Lang, Lane Rettig and Jared Wazinger. Huge list of people.

**[49:01] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think we kind of had like maybe a two or three hour slot, kind of like you could call it a sub conference where we had, you know, a bunch of related topics. Greg was also there. There was also a panel, some other people working on Ajson stuff. So it wasn't just like the WASM team, but topics around execution, I would say. I think at that time EVM as a thing has been kind of like in the background. Nobody did much nor discussed much about it. I don't think it was that year, but maybe the year following it. No, it was after Osaka. But yeah, I mean there was like another shift in all of these discussions when the topic of stateless execution started.

**[50:04] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right. So yeah, I mean, I guess all through these years the EVM itself was really not changing significantly or at all.

**[50:17] SPEAKER_01:** I think the only changes were mostly driven. I mean there were big changes, but they were mostly driven by outside reasons, not for improving execution itself per se. There have been, you know, there have been constant pushes towards pre compiles, like features needed, which people felt the evm, I mean, there's like two cases for. Back then there were two cases of pre compiled three. One case is you could do it on the evm, but it just takes too much gas. Right. And you want something cheaper. Case number two is you couldn't even implement it because the EVM lacks certain functionality. Or maybe you could, but it would be like extremely out of bounds, you know, like you would have to spend on one of those more than what? What's the block limit? Right. And the first category I said it's just too expensive. And by that I mean, you know, maybe it's. You could still do it and people did it, but it's just not economical. Right. Because maybe you have to pay for, maybe you have to pay like 20 bucks for something which would cost less than a dollar. Category two is something which technically you could implement in the evm, but it just costs more than what's allowed. Right. And category tree is something which you cannot even implement because it needs access to data or something which is not available to the evm. And I think at the time, during those years, like the first two categories were the pre component pies which people kept proposing. And some of those got in and some of those me or my team have been pushing back strongly against because we felt like maybe they weren't the best choice. And fortunately some of those ended up being not used at all. But they have been there. And one of the arguments for the it wasn't work also was that it would be more optimal and you wouldn't need to actually have these precompiles because you could just write it in webassembly. And we actually worked a lot over the years to prove or disprove this point in terms of benchmarking. And there we can also talk about that. So this was like one category of changes to the EVM which took place. And the second category is, you know, external changes like for the beacon chain and you needed new functionality, those obviously got in. And the third one is again around gas. There were a lot of like net gas metering or constant changes for the gas, either for the OS or security risks or just making stuff cheaper because people felt like it's overpriced. These have always been happening. But other kind of functionality, like small functionality to the vm, the only functional change which got in was the transient storage, which you could argue is less so. Again, about the VM itself rather than it's not like pure execution, it's rather the state itself, even though it's a temporary state. But I guess in our group we kind of separated VM work in two parts. One which is purely VM work and the second which is it may have an effect or a change in the VM itself, but it's more towards the state itself, whether that's storage, whether that's transactions or communication across contracts, or whether that's a transient storage. That's obviously bigger than just changing stuff in the VM itself. It has much bigger implications. But those are the areas. These bigger implication areas is the ones which actually took place mostly not by our team, like this netgas metering. It wasn't proposed by us or transient storage, but we definitely did research and analysis on all of these and put in our points. So the EVM was evolving, but not towards being more, I guess, efficient in executing. I guess I can argue for this because the number of pre compiles haven't stopped. Right. So over those years new pre compiles have been constantly added, which I guess can prove the point that the performance hasn't been improved. But repricings have been. Have been a constant change.

**[55:08] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right. And so I was looking so DEFCON 5 in Osaka, 4 panels. Your render looks like that's talking there about E WASM 2.0 state execution in at 2.0 and there was a minimal execution AMA at that point as well. So I mean I, I guess it was heading more into 202021 where EAM kind of came to a close. I mean was Epsilon Epsilon. Team Epsilon will have been formed prior to that.

**[55:56] SPEAKER_01:** So the team has been formed in like after Cancun. So like really kicked off in 2018. And Dave S was just a rebrand because by the time we rebranded, I think the year prior to that, we really just worked in evm. And yeah, it obviously created confusion. The team is called ewasm and even when there was a time when we did both EVM and webassembly, but yeah, we just rebranded because people got confused of what is this team even doing if there's no webassembly. Yeah, I mean as I said there was a big argument whether it would be faster than evm. Right. And so we spent significant amount of time on benchmarking and the main premise had it started out like the main reason the claim was made that it would be faster because the EVM has word size of 256. Even if you write a single digit, it takes up 256 bits. Small calculations which fit like 64 bits, which is the native size of the machines we use today, it would still need to take place in 256 bits. And the EVM itself has no types. So every single word is the full 256 bits. Now this makes a lot of sense for some of the work which needs to be done in the evm which is any kind of hashing or signature related work because those are 256 bits or at least were 256 bits. But then we got into you know like the ZK era and BLS and that actually is bigger. Like 384 bits or like 2081 and then hashes. Yeah, I think for that it works maybe like a small detour. The reason like The EVM is 256 bits is the Bitcoin VM. So all of this came from the Bitcoin VM directly.

**[58:23] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[58:25] SPEAKER_01:** And so because there's no types and you can only just do like this full word size and looking at the contracts at a time length 15 16. Obviously you don't always just do that and oh yeah, it should be faster if you do like native word size. So this is where it started, right? And at some point we did all these benchmarks and I don't remember which year. Obviously it depends on the workload, on what kind of workload you're dealing with. It would be faster or slower. We did end up actually adding a 256 bit native API to WASM. So another, I mean things just come back now. But another good reasoning for WASM was that it's extensible so you could add without changing the vm because the idea was that we rely on the browser and so we wouldn't be able to actually make any non standard changes. But WASM does have a way to import features which you could actually think about importing pre compiles that's kind of like the equivalent and the evm I mean obviously as the pre compile stuff. So we added like an API for dealing with 256 bit numbers. So you could say, you know, we had the 256 bit pre compiles for WASM and with those I think it kind of like you know match the speed on those workloads and exceeded on other workloads. So you know it was, it was actually faster but you know at the time we got there this was like 2018. In any case it was like two and a half years at least two and a half years post launch and I think before that we already had the gas token debate so there were these contracts and trick where you could basically buy a store value when the gas was cheaper and released at value when the gas was more expensive. This is the idea of the gas token and there were some refund and this operated on the refund logic and there was a big EVM change changing that refund logic and the reason for that was as far as I remember there's a significant traffic, significant percentage of the traffic on the network took place around gas tokens and so people wanted to get rid of this.

**[1:01:19] SPEAKER_00:** That happened on Ethereum Classic as well and on. Well it was POA chain at the time but now gnosis chain both of these two got really absolutely like spammed up the wazoo. I mean I, I guess the thought with that refund mechanism would be that people would be kind of like cleaning up after themselves that that would be an incentive that people would be using but then that did not prove to be the case. So I mean on, on etc it was just like here's know, here's a massive transaction which is all like zeros.

**[1:02:02] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, exactly.

**[1:02:03] SPEAKER_00:** Empty, empty, empty. Crap just to get the token.

**[1:02:09] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think there was. There were like multiple versions of them and using different methods and some of them kind of remained operational post the change as well, just less efficient. But yeah, I mean this gas token stuff already took place and some other like bigger changes which kind of left a sentiment that changing anything, you know, sentiment was. There's just so much, so many contracts already. It would be a really big inconvenience if you would swap a vm. Right. Even if the benchmarks were kind of like, you know, they were good in many areas or matching but I mean there definitely wasn't really the appetite anymore. But the pre compiles as an idea they were still around. So we kind of pivoted to okay, what if we. Because the precompiles always bugged maybe us or me specifically having them as a hindrance for multiple reasons. One reason is the process of getting something into the network, especially something deemed as complex and risky as a pre compilers. It requires a lot of scrutiny and it takes a lot of time. A good example is two good examples like the Blake2Pre Compile which got it like I don't remember when, like 2018, but it was proposed in Shankhari so like at least two years. And that is a really simple pre compile. The BLS pre compiles I think take the, you know the, take the top of the podium because those took maybe like four years or something of that length to. To get them live. And it took several champions over the years to get them over the finish line. So obviously, you know, given there have been so many champions, obviously there's a need to have them but it takes so much time and effort for everyone involved to get them over. And the other like big issue is it's just really hard with the pre compiles to get them perfect. Pricing is a big issue, right? And consensus bugs. And one of the main reasons, as I said, to have a pre compile is to have something which is cheaper, right? And these are written outside of the evm so you need to come up with a GAS figure for them which is like a constant benchmarking project. And that's why we have repricings of these because over time maybe the systems change or usage changes, but they are being repriced over time and somehow the pricing is never right. So there's always like a risk or it's just too high and nobody use it because it's not efficient. A good example is the original EC pre compiles EC AT and ecmul, I'm not sure which one, but one of them has had a price at a time that writing it in EVM directly was actually cheaper.

**[1:05:39] SPEAKER_00:** Wow.

**[1:05:39] SPEAKER_01:** And Aztec wrote that. And Aztec has been. I mean not the Aztec network as of today, but there was a version of Aztec by the same team on mainnet and that used EVM version for one of these. Even though the pre compile existed because the pre compile was more expensive. This has been repriced since. But you know pricing is really hard and because the pricing is, is is done outside in many cases you have a pricing logic which decides the price based on inputs. So you have two parts of the pre compiled, you have like this pricing logic and then you have the actual work and the pricing logic takes place first. Right. Because if you don't have enough to pay for it then the second won't execute. And there have been so many consensus bugs in the pricing logic because for many of them it has been complex. So people have been actually looking, some maybe maliciously to find a pricing bug across multiple clients just to rehash. It just takes a lot of work to get to pre compiling. It's a never ending work. Even once it's in you still need to take care of has higher risk of bugs. These are the reasons we really don't like pre compiles. I think I did maybe a 10 minute detour here on pre compiles but you can probably take a guess that it's very close to my heart. So we did a pivot in EWASM to what if we could actually put an end to this pre compiled question. And I mean as I said we already had this big number 256 bit API in WASM and I mean this was around the time, first time the PLS pre compiles were proposed whenever that was. And so we wrote them in WASM, you know, benchmarks, etc. And then I don't remember why and how, but we ended up creating a version on the evm so creating a EVM extension for the same goal which was called EVM384.

**[1:08:05] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right.

**[1:08:08] SPEAKER_01:** And I think that was probably like a six month long project debate on oracore devs to provide benchmarks and can it meet the speed of the native implementation, et cetera and all of this then. And I think that was a point I think wasn't just fizzled out because the interest from all code apps was like extremely lacking. And you know the CVM 384 maybe was like it was kind of like a light in terms of maybe we can, we can put an end to this pre compiled mess. And I think that was the point where we kind of really pivoted back to okay, let's improve the EVM at least with this EVM 384 which later evolved into something called EVMX. EVM 384 was like a fixed 384 bit extension. It's basically. I mean there were multiple versions, but the most basic version is just three instructions added to the evm. Then with a few helpers it always has been less than 10 instructions. With A384 you could implement most of the BLS and elliptic curve pre compiles and functionality desired by the users or more like developers, but also arithmetic hashing functions. So we had, I don't think it was Poseidon, but it was mimc. So the MIMC was used before Poseidon in Ethereum and you know, we had implementations for those as well. And it was faster than. Well, it was cheaper because you know you. One must put a. It's a different question whether something is faster versus it's cheaper in gas because as I said the GAS stuff is kind of. It's always a battle how well something reflects the actual execution time. And you can never have it 100% reflected because you have different machines running the clients. Right. But the, you know, the EVM384 stuff we had gas actual like execution time wise and gas wise it was for like the MIMC was better and for the BLS it was competitive and the EVM max iteration was to extend it beyond 384 bits and so you could replace also the mod expand support, something like rsa. And you know Starks was, was a goal. And yeah, I think then that was, that was our maybe 2020 just focusing on, on this instruction set.

**[1:11:04] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right. And then EOF came along as well.

**[1:11:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, there was during this work. So initially it was just a few instructions and still operated on. So we still operated on the regular EVM stack. And then it turned out if all of these were just kind of like small experiments and MVPs and as you iterated you realize that okay, what if we don't actually have to have the overhead of dealing with the stack like pushing, popping a lot of this stuff, moving them around and each of these because it's, you know, it's an interpreted. Most of the VMs are interpreters so each of these steps they check whether it's out of bounds, etc. So what if you can just skip that and put them, sorry, put the actual value part of the instruction. Right. And we call these immediates. So in a stack machine, like a pure stack machine, you really have just instructions which operate on the stack. Push something to, well, push something to the stack, or pull something, or pop something from the stack. And you may have a few special. And these also include the memory operations. They move between the memory and the stack. And then you can have a few special instructions which push a value to the stack itself. So some of these are constants pushing like a 1 or pushing a 0 is something which is present in many stack machines. And then also pushing constants where you encode the constant value as part of the instruction. And EVM has these, has 32 of these that push one to push 32, but has no other instruction which has an immediate value. This is actually also a big debated topic because the EVM has a special requirement. This is not because it is a stack machine, it's just a requirement. It has that they have a special instruction called the jump test, which is set for jump destination. The special requirement we have is that a jump instruction cannot jump to a location, which is not a jump test. And this means if this, I think it's 5B is the hex value of the jump test, and if this value would be as part of a constant, that would be an invalid jump because you would be jumping to data. And if you can jump to data, then you can create very interesting code. And it becomes much harder to verify what that code ever would do. And that's like the main reason for the jump test. But it's not something a stack machine needs. EVM does have it, because this requirement, it is kind of challenging to introduce new instructions with immediate values. And going back to why this discussion even started is that we realized if we get rid of the stack for the EVMX and we start using immediate values, we get a significant speed up. So we started looking into ways how can we introduce immediate values. And this eventually led to basically eof. EOF itself. The first version hasn't been. I mean, it wasn't something extremely complicated and it wasn't something without any prior history to it. As far as I remember, the first version of EOF really just tried to address three features. Want to create like a small structure, separate data and code, have versioning. So be able to decide what kind of byte could be looking at. Yeah, I think these were like the first two points really, because with these two you could start to introduce new Instructions which would have immediate etcetera, etcetera. And this code and data separation, it wasn't that has been proposed prior to uf. There have been multiple versions and ways to do that and the versioning was also proposed in multiple ways. But the EOF was like this small proposal which combined a bunch of these small features into one and it would have helped EVMX or at least, you know, these immediate values. It wasn't the only solution to immediate values. So there are multiple ways to hack them in into like you can have a fake push and then you have the instruction. And I think there is. And this goes into the territory of multi byte instructions which also have been proposed several times. And I think one, the unlimited swap dupe, the current version of that proposal I think also is multibyte. So you know, this problem persists even though UF never went live. But yeah, the first version was, was really simple and I think we worked on, on both parallels. So like this EVM max work and the UF work and that the UF work then expanded over time. And yeah, I think there was like one more era we had maybe parallel or before that with a stateless Ethereum work which was I think like early 2020 when stateless really kicked off. So we did a lot of work on that as well. And the main point of stateless Ethereum is that a transaction, I mean one of the end goals would be that you don't really need to store all of this data and a transaction would supply whatever proof they need for a given transaction to take place. Now, the stateless Ethereum as a topic still exists today and it has definitely evolved over time and with ZK vms it goes into a different direction. But these core problems I think are still there. And those ideas have been discussed back then and we contributed to the code chunking, which is basically a way to split up the bytecode into smaller chunks. And so you would only provide the given chunks which are needed to a given execution because you likely don't exercise every single code path in every single transaction. All of these were really on the EVM level and eof, I mean it's not something which was needed for it. But also EUF was designed to be compatible and work with it.

**[1:18:48] SPEAKER_00:** Were those the EOF functions, Is that the chunking? Is that the same thing?

**[1:18:55] SPEAKER_01:** No. So the functions, you could say it's like a different version or iteration of the VM 1.5 idea, right? But it really comes from the point of the jumps. The EVM doesn't really have. The structure of the EVM is really loose, it's really simple and it's really permissive. And it only has something called dynamic jumps, which means it takes the address you're trying to jump to from the stack. That's why it also has this jump test idea explained that you know, at runtime, at runtime it takes the location we are going to and then it checks whether that location is actually data or code. And the functions came from the need to have static jumps. And a static jump is where you don't take the direction the destination from the stack. The destination is encoded into the instruction itself, so it's an immediate value. This basically removes all of the runtime checks. You can check this at load time, you can check this at deploy time. And that's what we actually ended up doing. We had a verification phase at deploy time when a contract is created, it would be validated against a large set of rules, including whether these jumps are valid. And the deployment would be rejected if it didn't met it didn't succeed this validation. But the benefit is that at runtime you don't really need to do anything. You just execute. There's nothing to check. And this would provide significant speed up. But you also, I mean it's an improvement, but you can further improve it with something like functions where you can have these reusable blocks with their own rules. So some of these came from Solidity as a need. I mean not specifically Solidity team asked for it, but rather you know how you would use a language and in Solidity the compiler itself, it's called the calling convention. How do you operate between different functions and different compilers can use different calling conventions. In Solidity it would push on the stack the return address where you want to return to after the function is finished. And then you would have the arguments then in the function. You operate on this. You also likely want to return some values from the function. So that also goes into the stack. As far as I remember the stack layout, you have the return address first, then you have the input arguments, then you go into the function in the function, you operate on those inputs, you remove them at the end and if there's a return value, you put the return value there. But then you also need to swap that and get the return address, because that's where you need to jump to functions. Remove all of this complexity because you don't need a return address or anything. The VM knows it because you jump into a function and then you return from a function. This Actually functions also exist in regular CPUs. Even in x86, you have a call and you have a jump and the call has a return opcodes. You can return to the caller. This also works in interrupts, which has its own reti, or is it iret? None of these ideas are brand new or we didn't invent a brand new branch of computation here. We just took standard features which have been invented over the past 50, 70 years. So yeah, I mean that's what functions are. And the UF had like a bunch of other features over time because there's always someone coming in, oh, I would need this feature. And yeah, I gotta stop here. But there's more in the uf.

**[1:23:24] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean it always seemed to swing between okay, let's do something small. And then it's like, oh, well that's not enough benefits, so why would we do this? Or to something larger and comprehensive. And then, oh, that's big and scary, you know.

**[1:23:41] SPEAKER_01:** Exactly.

**[1:23:41] SPEAKER_00:** Can't win.

**[1:23:43] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think there were like two different discussions. One of them, we really wanted it to be like incremental updates and that's why we had separate EIPs to begin with. And for the first one, it's really just a structure. And then the second one was maybe the static jumps. And maybe the third one was functions, I don't remember, or validation. But then there was an argument. If each of these have their own version numbers, then all clients need to support all these different VM versions. So let's mesh them together. So this was like one set of arguments. But at some point, I think in 2022, early 2022, there was a request that okay, from all core devs, what if we could make it not like Ben introspection, which means. So in the EVM today, even though you cannot execute code, you can still introspect your code and you can. And even like contract deployment is kind of weird because you have the way contract deployment works. There's in solidif we call it a constructor. On the evm, it's more like called an initializer. But co deployment is that you run a piece of code which then returns bytecode which becomes the deployed code. This piece of code which runs has full access to the state as much a regular contract has, but it has full access to everything, has the code it wants to deploy in memory, it can modify that code and then eventually it gets returned and deployed by deployment, I mean it gets stored in the state. Right. And that's what it is. And there's like Basically no, there's no restriction of what happens here. One can construct bytecode on the fly from random data in the state, or random inputs or whatnot. And the idea behind betting introspection is that if you remove that, then you could over time replace the code in the state. If there's a new version of the uf, you could transpile that into a new version, which renders versions pointless because you always have a single, the latest version in the state. So VMs only do implement a single version. And this transpilation actually is the same idea. What we had with wasm, transpiling EVM to wasm and as I said, it never actually played out. The Epsilon team didn't propose banning the introspection, but we were open to research this and we came up with versions which supported this. But there was one more reason which is more on hand is ZK vms. It helps ZK VMS if you bend this because as I said, the current EVM can introspect and there's instructions which can read the code, etc. It's called code copy and Xcode copy. You can read other code as well in the state. And in ZK VMs, in many cases the code is transformed. So at runtime the ZK VMs don't actually execute like EVM code, they have a transformed version. But because of these bytecodes, they also need to store the verbatim EVM code. So it just puts extra stress on the ZKVMs. So if you bend this, there's a benefit to the ZK VMs. So these were the reasons. And yeah, I mean it was really fun research and there was a much more complex version of EOF which bent code introspection. And it also bent gas introspection, which is another set of work. I'm more fan of the bending gas introspection because that kind of removes all of this risk around gas because you can just, just change them on the fly as you want. And the only like the main problem today with changing gas is some of these GAS values can be hard coded and in fact are hard coded in many contracts. Sorry. Okay. And by any change there, there's like a lot of analysis going on on all core devs and oh, which contract is going to break and what, you know, are they important, etc. And with betting it, this question goes away and the way EOF accomplished it, there's a single place where you can control gas, which is on a transaction level and you know, whatever you supply, if gas has been changed like individual costs for different instructions has changed. You just have to supply more at the transaction level but nothing else changes. So I think that is a really good feature. But obviously by having all these aesthetic jumps functions, different swaps and an exchange instruction and then you have banning gas introspection and then banning code introspection, it definitely becomes something much bigger. Right. And that, that's where it ended. It was deemed, I don't know, too big, not, not beneficial enough. Etc.

**[1:29:59] SPEAKER_00:** So yeah, I mean looking back on your sort of 10 years or so of work there, you had a lot of stuff which, which got. That did not make it in, eh. I mean that must be quite frank.

**[1:30:13] SPEAKER_01:** Well at the same time I got a lot of stuff in as well. I don't know the exact numbers, but yeah, it's maybe like an EIP every, every second hard fork or something. But yeah, I mean there's definitely improvements we, we got in either me personally or as a team and you know, a lot of research is still relevant today and is being used by others. But obviously, obviously it's annoying that the VM changes never actually happen, but it's one of these things where you can research it to the end of time and you can always have a claim that yeah, you see, I mean we spent two more years and now it's much better than it was before and oh, if we went with the version two years prior that may wouldn't have been as optimal. But yeah, and then you never do anything right. So I think we probably would have been better off having a version of any of these things at some point of time and maybe not have newer versions. But I mean, you know, at this point we are where we don't have any of it. So on one side it's frustrating to an extent, but I think it was more frustrating last year when it was. When it was canceled. I don't really think much about it anymore but I'm definitely grateful for, you know, everything we learned. And yeah, it was definitely exciting and interesting to, to go through all of this. But yeah, as you say, it would be nicer if it would have. Some of this would have gone live. But it is what it is.

**[1:31:56] SPEAKER_00:** So I mean looking back, you know, to that time when you were first, first using Ethereum, I mean what can you remember what, what your thoughts at that time might have been on where things might have got to in five or 10 years? You know, is this, is this future similar to what you were thinking or something? Quite.

**[1:32:28] SPEAKER_01:** I think it's maybe a 50, 50 so I actually did from time to time I go back in and try to create a dap. So from an engineering point of view, not much has improved. So what improvement is really the foundry or any of these frameworks? It's, it's really nice, it's way more easy than it was back then. But the interaction and the wallets and all of that stuff that hasn't significantly changed. I would say the functionality and the features we use on them. I mean some stuff I wanted back then has been accomplished mostly around the payments area, but not fully. But I think everything else outside of that which was more, had more of a potential at least people working on it, like collaboration tools and any of those, I mean obviously some of it exists but nothing really has usage. Right. And I don't think anybody really thinks about those anymore. And maybe the privacy stuff, which has always been there but never really been, you know, maybe it only had like the, the negative topics around privacy. Right. So it's, I think the financial part, most of the stuff I wanted on the financial part has been accomplished or is being, you know, being shipped or being worked on and those are nice. But everything outside of the financial aspect, I don't think over the years there have been like different versions of things and explorations but yeah, that definitely is lacking and you know, prediction markets, I would, I would put more towards the financial aspect here.

**[1:34:38] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah. Okay. So I mean what are you doing with yourself these days?

**[1:34:44] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I've been taking, I mean after all of this research, I was also heavily involved in security, you know, smart contract security mostly. So co founded a company called Spearbit which, you know, later we also had like a brand Cantina which is the main brand as of today, but both of the brands exist and I worked a couple of years on that, but I'm out of both that and the EF research or you know, research around Ethereum. I've been taking a break for the past few months and observing. Obviously, you know, a lot of excitement is around AI and you know, I mean even last year as a team, we have been working quite a bit on AI assisted engineering at the time. I mean at this point it's, I don't know if it's human assisted AI engineering or human observed AI engineering. But yeah, I mean I'm just observing at the moment and you know, enjoying a little break but definitely keeping an eye on where the ecosystem goes because yeah, spend so much time here and I do want it to succeed.

**[1:36:15] SPEAKER_00:** All right, well I think that's a great point. To end. So thank you very much.

**[1:36:20] SPEAKER_01:** Thank you. It was a pleasure.

