** I'd like, uh I mean, uh, uh just edited some loan.
Hello, uh, uh, uh was a lot, uh, uh, uh, uh, the schools, uh, uh, uh, we'll just a little codebase, uh, oh, uh, uh I was a little bit and the way back again. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, you know to a little bit going to use a few, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, um, uh, uh, uh, uh to work is, uh, uh, uh, uh and stuff.

Maybe we were all right and stuff with a while

** after that was a couple of course of all,  I think to the ether even a bit. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh I, uh the, I think and engineering in the other group, uh, uh, uh, at talent was is that was at home. Is has some point of course of worked with one of course uh, uh at consens them blockchain. uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. I was nm was um that what was.

So I think and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh that and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh at was very nice and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh. uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh the radix, uh, uh that was and uh. uh, uh

** and uh, uh in community, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh I guess, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, there's some of uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh 2014. uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh so this Phantom uh, uh, uh, uh and uh for ether, uh after that many more the uh, uh, uh a very uh, uh, uh fund, uh, uh, uh. uh, uh, uh, uh. Uh some, uh and uh, uh and uh. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh crypto uh I, uh. You can, uh it. uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh not, uh. The duo and uh I was. Uh, uh, uh, uh was and Uh-latest simply putting my begin my, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, not around that uh, uh, uh. um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh before that, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. uh, uh, uh, uh and uh to uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh so. I uh. uh yeah, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh. uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and work. Uh roger was on, uh, uh and, uh, uh. uh, uh was and so but that in the uh, uh, uh, uh. Uh with the Ethereum, uh, uh, uh and that uh and uh that uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh. uh, uh and uh, uh. Uh, uh a little beyond a in that. Uh, uh.

** uh and uh and uh, uh was uh not uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh that there was and. uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh the uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh. Uh. Uh. uh, uh. I uh, uh, uh, uh, uh a yam fine, uh

Oh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh before that was. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh the graphs uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh to uh, uh, uh, uh, uh it and uh and, uh, uh and the so you know at Tips of basically. Uh.

Yeah, tah That to uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh in his uh, uh, uh. uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh but uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh before we were uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and, uh and uh. Uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and.

Was uh and uh and uh, uh.

** uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, um, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh because uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh I guess uh, uh, if you. Uh, and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh. I'll make cou..., uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh uh, uh and uh and to uh, uh and uh, and uh and uh, uh, uh and, uh, uh is that was basically, uh, uh and uh and, uh and uh and, and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh I was, uh, I thinker. It was uh, uh and uh and, uh and uh, uh, uh a is uh, uh a bit, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh.

Just to a still in a slightly, uh and uh, and uh, uh. Uh, uh, uh. uh, uh I uh. Um, uh and uh, uh at uh, uh uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and huh I'm, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh our uh and uh, uh and I uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, and uh, uh, uh, uh and. Uh with and and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and on the uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh so uh, uh and I, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh. uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and the, uh and uh and some. uh, uh, uh and whatch and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh.

uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, I was uh and uh and uh, uh but it's, uh and uh and, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and, uh and uh, uh that uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and I think uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, as well, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh at uh, uh and uh, uh and and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and the uh and, uh and uh and, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh. uh and, uh and uh, uh and uh and I, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and all the uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and my, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh was and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and I was and that's, frankly stopped huh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and that was and my uh and uh, uh and uh and, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh.

So and uh and uh, uh and uh and, uh, uh, and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and I was uh and was, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and hau and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh.

one and uh, uh, uh and uh and a and uh and uh and uh, uh a uh, I, and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and I, uh, uh and uh and, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and that uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and the uh and then uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and, uh, uh.

So uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh And sometimes and help. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and UE and uh and there at that, uh and the uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and it and uh and uh, uh And if you're and I and uh, of uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and the, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and surround and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, at, uh and felt like a uh and uh and uh, uh and. Leto uh and uh and  by, uh and it was and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and the uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and I, uh and uh and there was and uh and uh, buih and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, you and uh and uh.

That's uh and uh and uh, you can uh and uh and uh and uh a... and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and I was and uh, you, uh. Uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh the, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh. uh. uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh. Uh, uh and uh, uh, like in, uh and uh, and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh I thought and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh…

And uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh to be, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh, uh and it'll be and uh and Ian and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and a new and uh, uh, uh and uh and then, uh and uh to uh. Uh or the uh and sometimes, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and, uh and uh and the uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and one and, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, um, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and the uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and the uh, uh and uh and that was and uh and. uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and did and buying, uh and that's an and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and. Uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and as uh and uh and... and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and thought, uh, uh. uh, uh and uh, and uh, uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh there was, uh and uh and...

i gosh for, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh.

** uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and that, uh and I uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh. uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and then and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and when we can be the uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh uh and uh and, and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and it was and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh. Uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and so we had to uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and I, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and the uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh it and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh was uh. uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh then uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and just and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh anyway uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and I was and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and the and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and you and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and was and uh and and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and code and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and then and uh and uh and uh and uh and... and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and then and, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh.

Uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and and, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh.

Yeah and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and then and uh and uh and uh and the uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and the uh, uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and won't, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and like and uih. Uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh it and uh and we at the uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh it and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and huh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh.

Maybe that was and uh and uh and whil long and uh and they uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and then uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh it was and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and- and uh and uh and uh and uh.

** and uh and uh and uh together, uh and uh and uh and uh maybe uh and uh and uh and uh and uh.

So and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh were uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh.

Then uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. It was and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, I and uh and uh or uh and uh and uh and the and uh now and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh that and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh moe with the and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. Uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, I didn't and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and the and uh and uh and the and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and timely and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. Uh and uh and uh and uh Stein and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and I think and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and probably, uh and uh and uh.

And uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh huh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and the and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and  to uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh that and uh and uh and  uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and, uh and uh. Uh. Uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh.

** uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh

** and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and say and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh.And.

** ah and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and so and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh or uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and. uh and uh and uh and, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh I had a even uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and just and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh.

** to uh and uh and uh. uh and sometimes and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh. I and uh and uh, uh and paid out and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh in and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh. and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and, uh and uh. I uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh one and uh and you and uh and uh and we uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and you uh and uh and uh and uh in and uh that there. Uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and after and uh and uh and uh. Uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh that wasn't and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh.

** and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh. uh, uh, uh an and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and yh that and uh and uh and.. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and to uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and, uh and and it, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh by and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh to uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and my and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh in uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh of uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uhahu and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and then uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uhandoff to uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and you and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh… and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and also uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh with and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh on and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh dynamically. uh, uh and uh and uh. Uh.

** and uh and uh and uh and uh for and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh some and uh and uh, uh and and uh, uh and uh and uh and I and uh and all and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh that and uh and uh and uh and then. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh in and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh and uh were and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh, uh and uh a lot and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh Roan and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and it and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh in that was and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and then what uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and the uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh. uh and uh and uh a little and and uh and i'm just and uh and uh, uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh. uh and uh and uh and uh, that should and uh and uh and uh that and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh in 011 and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh you and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and uh and uh and, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh or were uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh all the uh, uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh so and uh Oh, uh it to the uh and uh, uh. uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh 'r a lot and uh. And uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and Uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh.

 and uh and uh and the and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh at the and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and... uh. uh and uh and uh, uh and uh or needed by the and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh. Uh...   and uh, um. uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh in uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh, uh and uh, uh and uh it and uh and uh and uh and honestly, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh, uh. and uh. uh, and uh, the uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and the uh that and uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh apparently and ah. uh i was and uh, and uh and uh. uh in, uh and uh and uh and uh because of and and and uh and uh talking a huge and and uh As and the and uh and uh It wasn't very and uh, uh that was when and it and because uh and uh. but I'm and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh, uh. uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh.

** and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh.

** and uh and uh, uh, I knowand uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh the and uh, uh, uh and uh, and uh and uh, uh a uh and uh I think and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh.

** and uh, uh. uh, uh and uh. uh and, uh and uh and uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh too uh all man and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh was an and uh, uh and uh and uh. uh and uh and so and and all of who and uh and uh and uh and uh. uh, uh and uh and uh and and uh. Uh. Uh. uh, uh, uh and and uh, uh and uh. So the uh, uh, uh, uh. uh, uh and that and uh, uh as uh, uh, uh, uh and uh. uh. uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and or and uh and uh, uh and uh, and and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh in uh and uh and uh and uh I think and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh I think and uh, uh.

So, uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, and uh and investing and uh. , uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and the uh, uh. Uh and uh, and taking too. uh and uh and uh and uh, I guess and uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and uh and and uh and uh and uh was and, uh and uh and uh, uh. uh, uh, uh and uh and uh and uh uh, uh, and uh and the uh and the uh and uh and uh and uh, uh, of and uh and and uh and then and uh, uh and uh, uh and uh and uh and uh, uh and U or another and uh and uh and