**[00:02] SPEAKER_00:** Okay, welcome, everyone. We have a very special and very timely topic today. Privacy on chain and the rise of Zcash. And we sort of have a special guest today. So I'm Victor Wong. I am founder and chief product officer at BlockApps. I'll get to our normal guests, but today we have Jim, do you want to give us a quick intro?

**[00:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah.

**[00:30] SPEAKER_02:** I'm also. I've known Victor and Kieren for years. I'm one of the founders of BlockApps and CTO.

**[00:38] SPEAKER_00:** And you're here in particularly because I would call you a Zcash expert, having written your own Zcash client.

**[00:48] SPEAKER_02:** Well, I think I'm more aspirational at this point in time. I mean, the way I learn about things is I try to write a client for it. So I was doing that, but then we got pulled in different directions. I got to the point where I had sort of replicated the actual client that could connect. It would bring the data in. It would bring the proofs in. But just about when I was getting to the good parts, that's when we moved on to other things.

**[01:34] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I'm gonna put the number. Answer my own question between like, 10 and 100, maybe 10.

**[01:42] SPEAKER_00:** I would say there. There's definitely less than 20 people who have written their own Zcash clients. Probably.

**[01:48] SPEAKER_01:** Well, yeah, there's probably some core contributors. I imagine there's more than a handful into Zcash. But, you know, when Jim says non expert, he it's like there are. Let's say, yes, I'll expand the range 5 to 100 people who understand Zcash better on the planet. Big, big, big range there. But we're talking about pretty small numbers and absolute terms, so.

**[02:13] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yes, exactly. I would say if Jim's not an expert, I don't know what even expert means. Anyways. Kieren, do you want to do a quick intro of yourself before?

**[02:23] SPEAKER_01:** Certainly. I'm our CEO. Been on these before. By the way, Vic, you're letting Jim off the hook, calling him a special guest. He has to do this all the time now with our, you know, continued in the public press. So special in the future.

**[02:40] SPEAKER_00:** Special today. Today is special, but it's the first of many.

**[02:45] SPEAKER_03:** Let's just say that I was looking through the. The prior videos Jim has never appeared on one of our own spaces. He's only been on early days of.

**[02:57] SPEAKER_01:** Okay, there you go.

**[02:59] SPEAKER_02:** Oh no, you found out but it.

**[03:01] SPEAKER_00:** Won't be special soon. Bob, by the way, since you've spoken up, can you do give a quick intro to yourself?

**[03:07] SPEAKER_03:** So hi, I'm. I'm Bob, I'm head of ecosystem and yeah been doing a lot of. A lot of spaces.

**[03:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah so I, I think you know to level set because I think there's a lot of misunderstanding about what privacy is.

**[03:26] SPEAKER_01:** What.

**[03:26] SPEAKER_00:** How would you define blockchain privacy and why do you think it's important?

**[03:32] SPEAKER_03:** Who's that a question for?

**[03:34] SPEAKER_00:** Could be for anyone. Whoever wants to go Kieren, you want.

**[03:36] SPEAKER_01:** To kick us off so and for the. I assume that the viewer is pretty deep in the space but I'll bring it down to a fairly low technical level. So blockchains are great. They let you move digitally scarce value from party to party. And the way that this is typically done is that you've got a big address which is almost but not quite a public key and you sort of sign a message that says I Kieren, but it's not Kirin because it's this address. Send three Bitcoin to Bob and it doesn't say Bob. It's another address you don't quite know either of those parties are. However you've got the address forever. And often it is the case that you can piece together what happened based on that address. So say you're on a centralized Exchange which has KYC'd. It knows how to associate you to maybe withdrawal address. It may not know down the line but if you start to get a bunch of data points you can kind of piece together who sent what to whom and you're actually in an extremely transparent scenario where everyone's financial transactions are visible to everyone and it's not. While it's a cryptographic technology, it's not necessarily a private technology. This has been a problem both in the consumer setting just for. People don't like this. Satoshi makes a comment, I believe in the white paper saying that obviously to prevent the double spend problem which basically is just that to ensure that Bitcoin can't be created or destroyed except by the agreed mechanism. Obviously you need to know the whole history and so he sees the problem as intrinsic. But some technologies come out later that maybe calls that into question that we'll talk about. It's also an enterprise problem so we can talk separately about our experience there. Sort of what the enterprises Want is kind of the same as what the public blockchain people want, except with selective visibility. So they want to say you're doing like a. On chain stock trade, which is actually now starting to happen. You sort of want to know the other party has the stock. You don't necessarily want to know who the other party is, but you want to know that they acquired that stock legitimately. And then when you get it, you want to be able to pass it on legitimately in the same way. And then there's sometimes this extra requirement that like, the regulator can see everything, you know, so you, you want sort of like a unlinkability of balance to person or company, but also this mass preservation property that I was talking about can't create or destroy assets. They have to be acquired legitimately and so on. So it's a perennial problem and closer to solved and, you know, but we can go into that shortly.

**[06:50] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, Bob, did you want to add anything to that?

**[06:52] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, Yes. I mean, going back to those Bitcoin, you know, beginnings in the Bitcoin white paper, you know, it, it just talks about severing identity from transactions, but, but really that's just pseudonymous, you know, not, not anonymous. And I think a lot of people didn't understand that differentiation back in those early days. And it's like, oh, Bitcoin's private, untrackable, you know, digital money. But, you know, very rapidly you have blockchain analytics coming in, you know, looking for correlations and patterns. And it's like, yeah, that's. You're not getting a lot of security, you know, even if you're not reusing addresses, just, just sort of normal things that people would do. There's, there's lots of correlations and you know, you can get unmasked that way. But yeah, Satoshi did talk a bit about zero knowledge. I can't remember who raised it. Somebody raised it early and, and he was like, yeah, you know, that would be interesting if we could do that. But, but it was just like a lot of that cryptography, you know, just didn't, hadn't happened, you know, so Zcash started in 2016, and it was only around that kind of time or a little before that you started having, you know, these, these papers on, on Snark Constructions and going through all these different kind of rounds. So, yeah, I mean, what that's meant is Bitcoin and then Ethereum following that same path. You know, they are an immutable public ledger forever. Ethereum. Even worse because it's an account model. So you're, you are reusing the addresses all the time, right? And if your address is unmasked, you are forever doxxed. That's happened to at least one of the Ethereum founders who moved hundreds of millions of dollars and out of a known address of his, which probably not desired.

**[09:05] SPEAKER_00:** And you guys have been talking about Satoshi, but Jim, I remember, I think it's like early at like 2014, Vitalik was talking like, he was like, ZK, Snark will fix all of this at some point in time. Do you remember that?

**[09:20] SPEAKER_02:** Well, I mean, like, I think we went through a learning process about privacy. And that's sort of like we're understating this right now. Maybe it's because we put a lot of time and effort into some privacy solutions that technically worked but were a business failure, I think is fair to say. And so the audience can learn from our failed mistakes in the past right now. But we sort of built. So we had heard years ago about zk, but we sort of just, I don't know, at the time, looked into it and said like, oh, this looks like overly complicated. You can get privacy through these other means. And we ended up building a system that, that allowed for sort of like quick spin up of, of private chains that everything was sort of like in a, an encrypted tunnel. And you could, you could have like these chains completely secure. Nobody else would see what was happening there. But, but long story short, you know, slow learning process, we, we found out that customers want everything. And to the point that it made it worthless, we would go into enterprise. We would say, oh, you can set up these private channels with others. And they love that because they could sort of control that and they could control who goes in there. But then once everything was going through these private channels, then they wanted to be able to transfer from private chain to private chain. And that's where everything started to fall apart. Getting things back onto the main chain became sort of this extra complicated system. And at the same time, customers wanted to have full flexibility in having extensions to Solidity where you could just name a chain and send some money from chain A to chain B. And really the only way to make that stuff work is you have to go back to zk. So ZK is overly complicated, but it is necessary. And so we started looking at that again. But I think the safe thing to do is start with a proven technology. And Zcash had been around for years and nobody had stolen money. And this is just sort of like a subset of zk, but it's kind of a cool thing. You can build what they call tumblers of money, throw a bunch of money in and then the money that you put into the tumbler is, you know how much went in but, but the ownership is completely scrambled up and at any time you can go and transfer money from within the tumbler from one user to another, but only the users who did the transferring and got the money know what was there, but nobody else can see what's happening. So again like you have these systems of multiple users with lots of money, but you don't know who owns a percentage of the money.

**[12:25] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Actually before we even go that far, can we talk just like what is ZK and how does it work and why is it an important part of the solution?

**[12:34] SPEAKER_01:** I want to pull back for also a second. I remember, I think there was an Ethereum meetup in New York. I'm not sure if either of you guys were there. I think I spoke at it maybe and there was also a Zcash I think presentation there. And it was at that time taking seven minutes to generate the ZK proofs. So you wanted to make a transaction you'd like, did this thing, it took seven minutes and then the verification was kind of fast. Once you had it and you sent it to the network, things could go on. But the usability was not there in those days. This is part of the reason we weren't gonna tell our enterprise customers like oh yeah, let's, let's ZK everything. You know, even if we had it all integrated nicely, there's a lot of devil in the details and it was unbelievably slow for a while and I think it's fixed.

**[13:27] SPEAKER_00:** But yeah, well, it's complicated.

**[13:30] SPEAKER_01:** I mean this is what I was.

**[13:31] SPEAKER_02:** Trying to say before is like I have like sort of nuts and bolts experience of what's going on in Zcash. But the more complicated world of zero knowledge, that's my aspirational part right now. I can sort of see pieces moving within there but, but would hesitate to speak more broadly on this except let's say that, that, that it is more complicated than any of the like for instance, Ethereum client implementation stuff that we were doing back in the day.

**[14:04] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah. It can get pretty high level summary of what zero knowledge is like. I think very few people understand.

**[14:11] SPEAKER_01:** I, I, I have a good layman example. Okay. I think and Jim can correct me. So I, I did want to take a theoretical cryptography class and the example they bring up is the CEO problem, so to speak. So you've got two CEOs and they're high ego guys, you know, and they want to know do you stand up.

**[14:34] SPEAKER_00:** From experience, Kieren, or.

**[14:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I'm not speaking about myself. They want to know who has the most between the two, but they don't want to know how much money, they merely want to know which one has more. And you would think that there wouldn't really be a way to create a scheme in which they could learn that information and nothing else. But there actually is. Again, this is almost 10 years ago now, so I may be describing the example incorrectly, but yeah, that's like a case where you might want zero knowledge. Similarly, like an ID check at a bar, you're leaking all your personal info when you hand the ID to the bouncer, to your home address, your full name, your date of birth, etc. So you may want to prove to the bar that you're over 21 without handing any other info over. Basically I think this is the general setting that it ends up at. Jim. Do I. You want to take that and run with it? Correct it?

**[15:46] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[15:47] SPEAKER_02:** So this is when you first look up zero knowledge. There are lots of little examples like this that are all pretty cool. And what's really happening in Zcash is that what you're trying to do is pass money from person A to person B. And person A wants to prove to person B that they have the money and that it was actually transferred, but without giving away the amount of money that person A has. Or without person A learning how much that person B has. Just that you know, that the state before was that you had the amount and that the state after is that it was transferred over. And then also no one else in the world can know this. So you're proving sort of the important parts but not others. But zero knowledge could get pretty complicated too because when you start looking into it, there are a lot of one off examples like you're talking about that you can sort of see a solution to. But the problem comes about in trying to come up with sort of a generic solution where you can almost just compile any amount of code into some ZK proof and then run that for anything. I don't remember because it's been about a year now, but, but in Zero cash there were multiple, multiple zero knowledge proofs in there for various aspects. If I, you know, I might be making up some of the details here, but I think there was like one proof was like to show that you had more than such and such money before the transfer. I might have it slightly off, but there were multiple of these zero knowledge algorithms in there. But put together they allowed for the, for the full sort of transfer of money within the tumbler. And each one sort of had been worked out independently of each other using a more generic system where they compiled certain algorithms in there, let me add. So making it generic can get really.

**[17:42] SPEAKER_01:** Complicated terminology for the listener that you heard that I barely remember. So snarks and Starks were a thing that Vitalik was talking about a lot and still does. So it's like succinct, non interactive arbitrary something computation. I can't remember.

**[18:04] SPEAKER_03:** Like but basically interactive proof.

**[18:08] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, but what's the whole acronym? But so there is a way I think to take an arbitrary computation and to prove that it has