**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Alrighty. Well, thanks everyone for coming back. We've done a couple of videos, so we've done two on the early days of Ethereum and I actually did another video on Identity following that, which you can check out on my channel. And in the process we're excited to reconnect with Bob Summerwill. So Bob will ask to introduce himself in a second, but he actually went quite in depth, you know, in, in reaction to the videos and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum. Wrote a long blog post that you should check out and we'll link in the notes and we asked him to join us here today to kind of dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I'll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro and we can just kind of get into it.

**[00:57] SPEAKER_01:** So, yeah. Hi. You know, thanks so much for the invite. You know, like I said to you guys, you know, I love those first two videos, you know, I, I love this history and it was great to, you know, both hear that and, and have, you know, a slightly different perspective as well. You know, our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven't in others. So, you know, there are a few things that came up which I, you know, I, I wasn't myself aware of. I mean just for, just for everyone's background about, about me and who I am. So I got interested in blockchain in 2014, but it was 2015 where I really like kind of jumped in and that happened because I was, I was working in Toronto, I had a six month contract and was working in Toronto around the same time that Ethereum was, was doing a mainnet launch. And I'd actually met Vitalik Buterin for the first time in 2014, but you know, just kind of following along a little bit, not actually doing anything. But then moving to Toronto, it's just like orders of magnitude more stuff going on and you know, meetups and you know, Anthony Di Iorio's Bitcoin Decentral co-working space and everything. So I got like really very addicted through that year and it was like, right, I can't not get involved, right? It's like, it's like you're there at the birth of the web or whatever and you've, you know, you, you've met Tim Berners-Lee and he's about to like go live on the web and it's like, you know, how can you not like want to get involved? So I just started sort of volunteering and helping.

My background prior to that was in the games industry. So like 15 years of seaport, 15 years of C plus plus. So I was like, well, you know, I can, I can do something with, with CPP, Ethereum. And I was really into mobile and wearables. So my first thing I set myself is, you know, can I get Ethereum running on my smartwatch? You know, could you get a smartwatch and go around it, like Bing, there's some money, you know, that'd be really cool. So. So yeah, I just started doing stuff on there that was about the time that Gavin Wood was parting company with, with the foundation as well. So there was kind of a, a dearth of people on that team. So, you know, like that period, I ended up being like, I think the only person in the world who was actually helping on that. Like, you know, no companies, no, no, nobody was helping. And then I ended up getting hired into the foundation in early 2016. And yeah, I've been involved on Ethereum Enterprise, Ethereum Hyperledger, then more recently Ethereum Classic for nearly a decade now.

**[03:57] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, Bob, well, and to be open to everyone, like world friends, and we're happy to have you as our first guest who's on this thing. But also you are like, you know, the Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum ecosystem. You're friends with everyone, you know, you've been in everywhere. So it's great to have your perspective on things.

**[04:23] SPEAKER_01:** Thank you.

**[04:25] SPEAKER_02:** So, and as Karen has mentioned, for anyone who hasn't seen Bob's blog post, it's notionally a blog post, almost a full novel, probably a novella size. It has pictures of a lot of the people we're talking about. You dug up so much content out of there. Were those your personal pictures? It's just stuff.

**[04:46] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, just stuff. I, I had. I mean, another thing here is there's a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well, which was there's one called Ethereum Foundation People and one called Ethereum Foundation Timeline. So I made those in late 2017, early 2018, because there was no canonical history of any of this. Yeah, it's like, how did Ethereum start? I mean, it's in people's heads. It's all secondhand stories that you hear from people that were around. But, you know, it's like, what's true, what isn't? Because I think especially on that like, foundation side, it was such a mess. Right. Just like all different people weren't getting on, blowing up kind of like parity versus the foundation and Charles Hoskinson, you know, and like, God, what. You know, so it, I think some people had almost taken this position of like that we don't talk about that. Right, right. Because anything I say, like it's going to offend somebody else. So just la, la, la. It doesn't matter that, you know. But, but yeah, so I started gathering that list of, well, you know, who were the people that were around in the pre-foundation days and in that. And so, yeah, I've got this, got this one page, this people page, which I think is really cool. Just, it's got. So that's basically from 2013 through to early 2018, identifying anyone that I could. That was involved with Ethereum, Pre-foundation or who worked for the foundation in those early years. And one of the things that's really great there is DEVCON 0, which happened in, I think October 2014. So that was the very first DEVCON. But it was a closed event. That wasn't a public event.

**[06:50] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[06:51] SPEAKER_01:** And it was, it was foundation people at that time. But there were also, you know, some other key community sort of people there as well. And they did this one thing at the start that was introductions. So there's this video that's about 15 or 20 minutes long of everybody, like, hi, I'm Vlad Zamfir. I'm here doing, you know, proof of stake research. Just see these, these, you know, so young, so many people that, you know, like really early 20s.

**[07:22] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[07:22] SPEAKER_01:** You know, and turning up and it's like that's, you know, that's so. And so. Right. And, and some of these people as well, you know, they, they're not involved anymore. You know, they're, they're sort of like footnotes in history. But, but you have that record. And so, yeah, that list of people, I got all of that together. And the reason that that came about was in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, hey, I hear Ming Chan's been sacked at the Foundation. Like, do you know anything about this? And I said, well, no, I don't, but it wouldn't surprise me. But you know, basically it would be like Vitalik Buterin or maybe Hudson Jameson could tell you. But like nobody, nobody else could tell you anyway. And, you know, it sort of came out well, yeah, she's, you know, she's not been sacked, but she's agreed to leave.

**[08:17] SPEAKER_02:** Right.

**[08:17] SPEAKER_01:** And then it's like, well, what's, what's next? So I contacted Vitalik Buterin and said, you know, hey, is there anything I can do to help? You know, what can I do, you know, and he said, well, the one thing you can do is can you, like, try and talk to people and work out, like, you know, what would good look, like, what do people think a good Ethereum foundation would look like? And so that started my sort of adventure, really, of like, right, I'm gonna go and talk to all the founders, all the other people, and try and work out like, you know, what, what. And then that just turned into really mind, you know, a thought experiment on my side of like, okay, so, you know, to my mind, Ming Chan was terrible. So how did she get hired? Like, what was going on? You know, whatever, two and a half years back, that, that looked like a good option, you know, like, what, how. How did it work before, you know, like, what. How did the foundation come about? And like, what. What were the group of leaders and like, what were all the dynamics between all of these people? So, yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there. And that's, that was the, the sort of the genesis for that information gathering. And I learned a lot. And that information as well, I gave to Laura Shin and to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books is kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I found, which is maybe like the best information that there was at that time.

**[09:47] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, well, and also it's to your point is that I think generally people have sort of survivorship bias about, you know, like, everything works smooth, but innovation is messy. You know, it's messy and it's like, you know, there are a million and one different paths that things could have went to. And we just want to kind of acknowledge all that, like, you know, like, given where the ecosystem is today. And even though, you know, it's amazing to me that so many people know about it, that later I spent, we all spent the first years trying to get anyone to listen to us talk about blockchain, and no one, you know, everyone just glaze over. Right. So it's, it's just kind of nice to take that retrospective view at this point. Oh, went a little bit far. We'll just go with it.

**[10:37] SPEAKER_01:** One of the things that I, I know that Vitalik Buterin said, and again, it was maybe in Laura Shin's book was like the, the founding of Ethereum was very atypical because it was essentially like, here's. Here's a white paper out to a bunch of random people who may be interested, and it's like basically like, first people that turn up, right? You're the founders, like, you know, a number of them. They'd, you know, they'd not even met each other before that. You know, not really a lot of knowledge. And so, yeah, like, there were lots of interpersonal things that just didn't work at all. It's just like. No, like founding a company. And I'm sure you guys, you know, have this experience yourself. Right. You want to start with people that you kind of know and trust a bit because you know that you're going through the fire together. So, you know, you better have some stickability with you and, you know, common alignment or at least knowing that you've got good communication to go through those bad times. Right. You know that, you know that you can work it out.

**[11:56] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[11:57] SPEAKER_01:** And what seems to happen on Ethereum is absolutely the polar opposite of that. It's just random bunch of people who were there, didn't really know each other. Like, make that commitment before you even know what you're even doing. Right.

**[12:09] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[12:10] SPEAKER_01:** And so that didn't work so great.

**[12:13] SPEAKER_00:** Also, let me. Actually, I wanted to ask about that. I'm also just looking at the list of the Ethereum foundation people, which is remarkably long for the type of initiative it was. You know, we talk about this because we're a management team and we're trying to get people to focus on particular goals and things our company wants to do and such. Do you think there is any benefit to this level of. You could call it disorganization or just, you know, I kind of think if there were a benefit and it wasn't merely just an inefficient and painful process that Ethereum succeeded in spite of, it's kind of. It embodied the ethos and it let people like Vitalik Buterin put the idea out there, and then people fought for its destiny, like Ethereum existed, and then they wanted to be part of taking it, too. And he saw just the clients and all that, too. Sorry, Jim, go ahead.

**[13:09] SPEAKER_03:** I was gonna say it kind of worked like a blockchain works, in fact.

**[13:12] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[13:12] SPEAKER_03:** Lots of random people coming together with some underlying principle to organize things and then they fight it out.

**[13:18] SPEAKER_02:** But what's that law that organization technology reflects the organization? So, yeah, something like that. Like. Yes. Sorry.

**[13:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, I guess in general. Yes. You know, having that, like, frothing, emergent, like, stuff is. Is good. I think where it was really screwed, though, was to do with money and. And, you know, the ICO funding. Right. That it's basically like, okay, here we're doing the thing, and here the money is all actually in this organizational group and the people in that group are being funded, you know, are in this privileged position. It's something which Brian Behlendorf said to me in later years was it's sort of like the original sin of Ethereum is if you want to have that kind of collaboration. So, you know, whatever stuff like the EEA Hyperledger or even just, you know, the rather looser protocol development around Ethereum, you don't want to pay one team and not the others.

**[14:27] SPEAKER_02:** Right?

**[14:27] SPEAKER_01:** Because that just screws that battlefield. So you have this situation, for example, where you know, you've got the C++ client and you've got a Geth. You know, you did have the Python client as well, so you had that good triangulation, but it was essentially like the, the funded ones were C++ and Go. And then they had the, the money crisis of like, oh my God, is this thing even going to happen? Right, We've got cut scope, C++ is gone, Geth ends up going out of the way. And then you had Parity, you know, having one of the major clients, but without funding. So it's like Geth. Oh, Geth. That's the, you know, that's the favored child, right? You know, that's the, it's not like the official client, but it is the official client. So all that sort of like separation of implementation versus specification and you know, in that free market around that was really skewed because the money was with Geth and get were in the foundation and they've got, you know, Vitalik Buterin's kind of blessing and everything. So I think that's where things were great because you did have the diversity, but it wasn't fair diversity. And I think if you look at what's happening now on the consensus clients for, I was going to say Ethereum 2, it's not called Ethereum 2 anymore. But you know, the separation that you have with those execution clients and consensus clients, none of those consensus clients are made by the foundation. The foundation doesn't have client teams. They do funding like they got the grants and I think all of those teams are going to be grant recipients. So that's kind of centralization in a way, but it is an even playing field in terms of the development. Right, because you've got an evenness of funding. And that wasn't the case, you know, originally for Ethereum. And I think that that made a lot of bitterness as well, because it's like, well, why have you guys got the money? Like we're, we're making another one as well and. Or you Know, or other parts of the ecosystem. Like there wasn't a grants program for a number of years. Yeah, between about 2015 and 2018 there wasn't even a grants program. You know, you got the foundation sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars and teams couldn't even get funded for doing anything. So, so yeah, I think the diversity is good, but the money was bad.

**[17:03] SPEAKER_00:** Interesting. Yeah, I, I think. Right, okay, that's a, it's a good strong point. So if you compare to like a Bitcoin, which I know less about the history of the development of Bitcoin, but it was kind of similar. There was no pre-mine and no token presale. And so the people who were in it were in it for general interest and it was really sincerely an even playing field. And I would argue, you know, and in some ways Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin, especially since let's say 2015. Some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes and that's kind of part of why it holds its value in some way. But it's I think been stifled a little bit for that reason. I think it's pretty hard probably to make step function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner.

**[18:07] SPEAKER_01:** Another major difference there, talking about clients is it was a very deliberate decision right on Ethereum to, to separate the specification from the clients and that there were multiple clients from day one. I, I see if I can find my Twitter thread. I was finding these the other day. I was finding the first commits for, for Py Ethereum Py F app or Py Ethereum as it was C++ Ethereum and Go Ethereum. And they were all, I think they were all November or December, I think they were all 2013, not even 2014 for those three. And then Ethereum J looked like it started in about April I think. But you know.

**[18:52] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, Jim Kieran, you guys started Ethereum H in 2014.

**[18:56] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, we were much later.

**[18:58] SPEAKER_02:** We were.

**[19:01] SPEAKER_03:** When did we get quarter 2014.

**[19:03] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, that's right.

**[19:04] SPEAKER_02:** That's about right.

**[19:07] SPEAKER_00:** And I had worked on Ethereum just in the summer. So starting kind of maybe June 2014, I got to know the project pretty well and then I gone back to Berkeley. I was in New York for the summer and met Jim September, October, something like that. And we started work more or less right away. More Jim than me. But so yeah, so there was a big time delay on, on our side and yeah, I think. Okay, yeah, Bob, it's an interesting point, right. I think probably they could have. There was some, some real mismanagement at different times, both with the running out of funds, not doing any hedging. And then later, I guess I agree that it could have just been more fair and open feeling and that would have alienated fewer people and it could have even just been bigger than it is today. Obviously we're talking about a smashing success here, but it's sort of the idea and the community was so powerful that it, you know, this definitely succeeded in, in spite of aspect, I think there was value still in this. Like throw it out there, get people to fight over it, but probably overcorrected. And lots of these people also just went and started their own thing.

**[20:28] SPEAKER_01:** I mean the other thing is right at the start there, it's like, well, the people that doing it, that was the whole world, right? You know, that was everything. Right. Was several months. I mean, all of that early work on the clients actually was before the foundation even existed. That was actually unfunded.

**[20:44] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[20:46] SPEAKER_01:** Because I'm looking at the dates. So the. The white paper came out in November 2013. Sorry, 2013. Py Ethereum was started on November 19, 2013. Gavin Wood actually was in contact with Vitalik Buterin on that same day. C++ Ethereum started four days later, 23rd of of December. Obviously some over Christmas hacking on these things going on and then Go. Ethereum was December 26th. So just three further days. The foundation got formed I think in May, April or May 2014, but the crowd sale didn't conclude until September 2014. So you'd actually got about nine months worth of development on all of these three clients that was actually unfunded. So, you know, I think, I think that unfairness kind of came in a little bit later. I think for that phase it was like nobody got funded. Oh, sorry. You know, nobody got funded though there was the retrospective payback. Right. You know, when, when the crowd sale had gone through, you had, you know, money for early contributors, which I think, I think that was nearly 10%.

**[22:10] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[22:10] SPEAKER_01:** For like 100, 120 people. Like some people made out like absolute bandits for, for those early months. But then, yeah, following that, there was hiring of actual, you know, staff onto those teams. And that I think is when it became kind of uneven because you already had Ethereum J for a number of months there and that, you know, that. That never got funded and then you. And then you guys starting whenever you were starting. So yeah, it kind of became uneven I think at that point. And, and probably the worst of it of all was for Parity you know, when, when that team spun out and you basically did have a major, you know, rapidly load bearing client and it was just, you know, unfunded. Especially in with Gavin Wood who was, you know, had been the CTO and wrote the yellow paper and had the first working client and you know, all of the value he delivered and then it's like, right, sorry, you're out and you're not getting any money, you know.

**[23:20] SPEAKER_00:** Yes.

**[23:21] SPEAKER_02:** Do you.

**[23:23] SPEAKER_00:** So my memory around the C++ client was that there were funds to do a security audit for two clients, but one at a time and it was tight. Right. And so they did go Ethereum first and I think they did actually do the security audit on C++ Ethereum, but I'm not quite sure they did.

**[23:47] SPEAKER_01:** You know, maybe there'd been an intention to do that, but then the money. Right. Ran out before it happened. I mean, my understanding in terms of uptake as well is C++ Ethereum was like working first but then go Ethereum just like caught up and overtook it like really fast. So when they were making those decisions on cutting funding, which would have been mid-2015, it's like, hey Gavin Wood, you're the CTO, but it's your code base that's got a copy. And then that's what happened.

**[24:27] SPEAKER_00:** And I mean, I was sort of.

**[24:30] SPEAKER_03:** Building the various clients quite a bit because I was trying to integrate with.

**[24:34] SPEAKER_02:** Them at the time.

**[24:36] SPEAKER_03:** And my memory was that the C++ client had all the newest stuff in it first. So if I wanted to see something first I would go there. But the Go client was more stable like because I think because they were putting so much stuff into the C++ client, it was often in an unstable situation. And so I would typically kind of go to C++ first to see the new stuff, but if it wasn't building that day, I would run over to Go and try it out.

**[25:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, and that would make complete sense because the other thing to know with the C++ client is that was where the test suites were done. You know, like all the tests were generated out of that code base. So as you say, all of the protocol changes or whatever would happen there first. Then you do the test generation through that and then those were the tests for, for other clients. So even when C++ Ethereum as a client like died, it didn't die within that testing suite for years. It's like, right, even though nobody's actually like running this or using it on Mainnet or anything, you know, we've got to keep, we've got to keep maintaining that One, because that's where the tests are coming from. So yeah, that, that front line was really like leading across Solidity, the tests and C++ Ethereum, you know, all of those actually were bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the GUI apps, like with Mix and Aleph Zero, Aleph One, Aleph Five. Like it took 24 hours to build the bloody thing. But that will be because it was all around Gavin Wood. Right. You know, Gavin Wood was leading all of that. You know, he was, he was building that client, he was writing the yellow paper, he was, you know, working there with, with, with Christian Reitwiessner and, and Christoph Jentzsch on that specification and testing stuff like that. You know, all of that was, was there and then on Geth on Jeff Wilcke's side, you know, but, you know, just, just doing Geth. Right. It wasn't, wasn't a broader thing. And, and that. That Geth team were working closer with Mist, you know, with Stephan Tual on Mist, like for a, for a good while. I don't think C++ Ethereum even worked with Mist. You know, it's like all these groups not really talking to each other. But yeah, that would make sense. Like a lot of it was Gavin Wood, led.

**[27:08] SPEAKER_02:** And wait, Solidity, the Solidity compiler, that was part of that C++ group too. That makes sense because it was written.

**[27:18] SPEAKER_01:** In C++. But yeah, it was all under web3 umbrella.

**[27:24] SPEAKER_00:** I remember web3 umbrella.

**[27:26] SPEAKER_02:** I remember web3 umbrella. Yes.

**[27:28] SPEAKER_01:** So yeah, web3 umbrella was a git repo with sub repos for, you know, for, for E. It was called E, just called E, the executable. So you had F and G. But yeah, you had F, you had Solidity, you had Mix, which was the original IDE. Cute, um, client. You had Aleph 0, which was the GUI miner.

**[28:03] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, that's right.

**[28:04] SPEAKER_01:** So it's like right here, here's a go, press the Mine button and you know, and then you had Aleph 1, which was sort of, I guess it was like kind of like a GUI client runner thing. I can't remember the exact scope, but. But it was sort of like, right, you're running a node, but you've kind of got a GUI on it and I, I can't remember what it had, but you know, whatever logs going by and I guess you could like fiddle with settings or whatever. But yeah, all of that was in Web3 umbrella.

**[28:37] SPEAKER_02:** That's a lot.

**[28:40] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. And all of the dependent. They were all really test. And the tests as well. Right. But then they were all really codependent. I mean, when I started one of the first things I did was like, what are the dependencies on all of these things? Like, what is all of this stuff? Because you had like libraries with it as well. It's like Lib, Ethereum, Lib web based, web 3 base.

**[29:02] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, dev P2P. Live P2P. There were documentation all over the place.

**[29:10] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, I think, you know, I think what had happened there that Gavin Wood was sort of trying to do, but it never came to fruition and then he left was. It's like, right, let's try and make this modular. Right, we're going to try and do a modular thing and pull apart the networking and the database and this, that and the other. But it was kind, it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these. So you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway. Like you couldn't mix and match because there was no versioning, there was no interface discipline on any of it. You had to use all the latest ones together. But then it was all split into these separate repos. So it's like, right, you're making a change on one of them and then whatever, updating the sub modules and like, like that wasn't atomic, it was, it was just a big old mess. So yeah, one of the first things I did was like, you know, work out in Infer a dependency diagram, map a path to pulling it all back into a, into a monolithic workspace, doing like automated builds that we somehow didn't have and specifically decoupling Solidity and the tests from the client. Right, right. So for Solidity, for example, because it was tied in with this full workspace, it was literally a 24 hour build. It was like compiling chromium from source twice, compiling qt, all of this stuff. So just to get, you know. And there weren't binaries available for Solidity either. Like you had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to like compile, you know, a smart contract to do anything, you have to do all of that. So I remember, you know, after all that decomposition I, you know, I got it so you could just do Solidity and you know, that was a quick build. And then I did like homebrew and it's like, so you could do like brew, install Solidity and it did it in like five seconds. And that was like, oh my God, this is amazing. But yeah, it was, yeah, it was a bit of a mess.

**[31:31] SPEAKER_02:** I do remember waiting like, you know, many times, trying to build things, coming back, looking at it, saying like, this can't be like, my machine's got to be broken because like, it can't be this long. Can't be like eight hours. Like nothing I could imagine would take more than eight hours to do, you know, but you're right, it just like.

**[31:52] SPEAKER_01:** You know, talking about that, you know, creative brew of lots of different people and uncoordinated and everything. One of my first observations on joining the. The foundation is these people seem allergic to professionalism because that seems, you know, in an organized way. Well, you're one of the baddies, you know, you're the status quo. You're trying to subvert it and take it over. You know, things as simple as like, like, you know, have we got like technical leads that actually lead? You know, have, have we got any project management? Have we got any it. Have we got anything? And it's like, no, it's just like a jumble of people doing stuff. And it's like, well, how. How on earth can you develop software in such a chaotic environment? But that was kind of the vibe as well. That was seen as a good thing, you know, because it's. Because that's a defensive cultural thing. Right. You know