**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Alrighty. Well, thanks everyone for coming back. We’ve done a couple of videos, so we’ve done two on the early days of Ethereum. And I actually did another video on identity following that, which you can check out on my channel. And in the process, we’re excited to reconnect with Bob Summerwill. So Bob, I’ll ask you to introduce yourself in a second, but you actually went quite in depth, in reaction to the videos, and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum. You wrote a long blog post that you should check out, and we’ll link it in the notes, and we asked you to join us here today to kind of dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I’ll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro, and we can just kind of get into it.

**[00:57] SPEAKER_01:** So, yeah. Hi. Thanks so much for the invite. Like I said to you guys, I loved those first two videos. I love this history, and it was great to both hear that and have a slightly different perspective as well. Our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven’t in others. So there were a few things that came up which I wasn’t myself aware of. Just for everyone’s background about me and who I am: I got interested in blockchain in 2014, but it was 2015 where I really jumped in, and that happened because I was working in Toronto. I had a six-month contract and was working in Toronto around the same time that Ethereum was doing a mainnet launch. And I’d actually met Vitalik for the first time in 2014, but just kind of following along a little bit, not actually doing anything. But then moving to Toronto, it’s just like orders of magnitude more stuff going on, and meetups, and Anthony Di Iorio’s Bitcoin Decentral co-working space and everything. So I got really very addicted through that year and it was like, “Right, I can’t not get involved,” right? It’s like you’re there at the birth of the web or whatever, and you’ve met Tim Berners-Lee and he’s about to go live on the web, and it’s like, how can you not want to get involved? So I just started sort of volunteering and helping. My background prior to that was in the games industry. So like 15 years of C#, 15 years of C++. So I was like, well, I can do something with C++/Ethereum. And I was really into mobile and wearables. So my first thing I set myself is: can I get Ethereum running on my smartwatch? Could you get a smartwatch and go around it like “bing,” there’s some money. That’d be really cool. So yeah, I just started doing stuff on there. That was about the time that Gav was parting company with the Foundation as well. So there was kind of a dearth of people on that team. So that period, I ended up being, I think, the only person in the world who was actually helping on that. No companies, nobody was helping. And then I ended up getting hired into the Foundation in early 2016. And yeah, I’ve been involved on Enterprise Ethereum, Ethereum/Hyperledger, then more recently Ethereum Classic for nearly a decade now.

**[03:57] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, Bob. Well, and to be open to everyone, world friends, we’re happy to have you as our first guest who’s on this thing. But also you are like the Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum ecosystem. You’re friends with everyone. You’ve been everywhere. So it’s great to have your perspective on things.

**[04:23] SPEAKER_01:** Thank you.

**[04:25] SPEAKER_02:** So, and as Kieren has mentioned, for anyone who hasn’t seen Bob’s blog post, it’s notionally a blog post—almost a full novel, probably a novella-size. It has pictures of a lot of the people we’re talking about. You dug up so much content out of there. Were those your personal pictures, or is it just stuff?

**[04:46] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, just stuff. I mean, another thing here is there’s a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well. There’s one called “Ethereum Foundation People” and one called “Ethereum Foundation Timeline.” So I made those in late 2017, early 2018, because there was no canonical history of any of this. It’s like, how did Ethereum start? It’s in people’s heads. It’s all secondhand stories that you hear from people that were around. But what’s true, what isn’t? Because I think especially on that Foundation side, it was such a mess. All different people weren’t getting on, blowing up, kind of like Parity versus the Foundation and Charles, and like, God, what. So I think some people had almost taken this position of like, “We don’t talk about that,” right? Because anything I say, it’s going to offend somebody else. So just la-la-la, it doesn’t matter. But yeah, so I started gathering that list of, well, who were the people that were around in the pre-Foundation days and in that. And so yeah, I’ve got this one page, this people page, which I think is really cool. That’s basically from 2013 through to early 2018, identifying anyone that I could that was involved with Ethereum pre-Foundation or who worked for the Foundation in those early years. And one of the things that’s really great there is Devcon 0, which happened in, I think, October 2014. So that was the very first Devcon, but it was a closed event. That wasn’t a public event.

**[06:50] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[06:51] SPEAKER_01:** And it was Foundation people at that time, but there were also some other key community sort of people there as well. And they did this one thing at the start that was introductions. So there’s this video that’s about 15 or 20 minutes long of everybody, like, “Hi, I’m Vlad. I’m here doing proof-of-stake research.” You just see these, these so young—so many people that were really early 20s—turning up. And it’s like, that’s so… And some of these people as well, they’re not involved anymore. They’re sort of like footnotes in history. But you have that record. And so yeah, that list of people—I got all of that together. And the reason that that came about was: in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, “Hey, I hear Ming’s been sacked at the Foundation. Do you know anything about this?” And I said, “Well, no, I don’t, but it wouldn’t surprise me.” But basically it would be like Vitalik or maybe Hudson could tell you, but nobody else could tell you anyway. And it sort of came out, well, yeah, she’s not been sacked, but she’s agreed to leave.

**[08:17] SPEAKER_02:** Right.

**[08:17] SPEAKER_01:** And then it’s like, well, what’s next? So I contacted Vitalik and said, “Hey, is there anything I can do to help? What can I do?” And he said, “Well, the one thing you can do is can you try and talk to people and work out what would good look like—what do people think a good Ethereum Foundation would look like?” And so that started my sort of adventure, really, of like, right, I’m going to go and talk to all the founders, all the other people, and try and work out what… And then that just turned into, really, a thought experiment on my side of like, okay, so to my mind Ming was terrible. So how did she get hired? What was going on? Whatever—two and a half years back, that looked like a good option. What—how? How did it work before? How did the Foundation come about? And what were the group of leaders, and what were all the dynamics between all of these people? So yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there. And that was the sort of the genesis for that information gathering. And I learned a lot. And that information as well, I gave to Laura and to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books, kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I found, which is maybe the best information that there was at that time.

**[09:47] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, well, and also to your point, I think generally people have sort of survivorship bias about, you know, like everything works smooth, but innovation is messy. It’s messy and it’s like, you know, there are a million and one different paths that things could have went to. And we just want to kind of acknowledge all that, given where the ecosystem is today. And even though it’s amazing to me that so many people know about it, later, we all spent the first years trying to get anyone to listen to us talk about blockchain, and no one—everyone just glazed over, right? So it’s just kind of nice to take that retrospective view at this point. Oh, went a little bit far. We’ll just go with it.

**[10:37] SPEAKER_01:** One of the things that I know that Vitalik said—and again, it was maybe in Laura Shin’s book—was the founding of Ethereum was very atypical, because it was essentially like: here’s a white paper out to a bunch of random people who may be interested, and it’s basically like first people that turn up, right? You’re the founders, you know. A number of them, they’d not even met each other before that. Not really a lot of knowledge. And so yeah, there were lots of interpersonal things that just didn’t work at all. It’s just like founding a company. And I’m sure you guys have this experience yourself, right? You want to start with people that you kind of know and trust a bit, because you know that you’re going through the fire together. So you better have some stickability with you, and common alignment, or at least knowing that you’ve got good communication to go through those bad times, right? You know that you can work it out.

**[11:56] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[11:57] SPEAKER_01:** And what seems to happen on Ethereum is absolutely the polar opposite of that. It’s just a random bunch of people who were there, didn’t really know each other, like make that commitment before you even know what you’re even doing, right?

**[12:09] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[12:10] SPEAKER_01:** And so that didn’t work so great.

**[12:13] SPEAKER_02:** And I think—

**[12:14] SPEAKER_00:** Also, let me—actually, I wanted to ask about that. I’m also just looking at the list of the Ethereum Foundation people, which is remarkably long for the type of initiative it was. We talk about this because we’re a management team and we’re trying to get people to focus on particular goals and things our company wants to do and such. Do you think there is any benefit to this level of—you could call it disorganization or just… I kind of think if there were a benefit and it wasn’t merely just an inefficient and painful process that Ethereum succeeded in spite of, it embodied the ethos, and it let people like Vitalik put the idea out there, and then people fought for its destiny. Like Ethereum existed, and then they wanted to be part of taking it too. And he saw just the clients and all that too. Sorry, Jim, go ahead.

**[13:09] SPEAKER_03:** I was going to say it kind of worked like a blockchain works, in fact.

**[13:12] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[13:12] SPEAKER_03:** Lots of random people coming together with some underlying principle to organize things, and then they fight it out.

**[13:18] SPEAKER_02:** But what’s that law that organization technology reflects the organization? So yeah, something like that. Like—yes. Sorry.

**[13:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, I guess in general, yes. Having that frothing, emergent stuff is good. I think where it was really screwed, though, was to do with money and the ICO funding, right? It’s basically like, okay, here we’re doing the thing, and here the money is all actually in this organizational group, and the people in that group are being funded, are in this privileged position. It’s something which Brian Behlendorf said to me in later years was it’s sort of like the original sin of Ethereum: if you want to have that kind of collaboration—so whatever stuff like the EEA and Hyperledger, or even just the rather looser protocol development around Ethereum—you don’t want to pay one team and not the others, because that just screws that battlefield. So you have this situation, for example, where you’ve got the C++ client, and you’ve got Gav. You did have the Python client as well, so you had that good triangulation, but it was essentially like the funded ones were C++ and Go. And then they had the money crisis of like, “Oh my God, is this thing even going to happen?” We’ve got cut scope, C++ is gone, Gav ends up going out of the way. And then you had Parity having one of the major clients, but without funding. So it’s like Geth—oh, Geth, that’s the favored child, right? It’s not like the official client, but it is the official client. So all that sort of separation of implementation versus specification and, you know, in that free market around that, was really skewed because the money was with Gav and Geth were in the Foundation and they’ve got Vitalik’s kind of blessing and everything. So I think that’s where things were great because you did have the diversity, but it wasn’t fair diversity.

And I think if you look at what’s happening now on the consensus clients for—I was going to say “Ethereum 2,” it’s not called Ethereum 2 anymore—but the separation that you have with those execution clients and consensus clients: none of those consensus clients are made by the Foundation. The Foundation doesn’t have client teams. They do funding, like they’ve got the grants, and I think all of those teams are going to be grant recipients. So that’s kind of centralization in a way, but it is an even playing field in terms of the development, right? Because you’ve got an evenness of funding. And that wasn’t the case originally for Ethereum. And I think that made a lot of bitterness as well, because it’s like, well, why have you guys got the money? We’re making another one as well. Or other parts of the ecosystem: there wasn’t a grants program for a number of years. Yeah, between about 2015 and 2018 there wasn’t even a grants program. You’ve got the Foundation sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars and teams couldn’t even get funded for doing anything. So yeah, I think the diversity is good, but the money was bad.

**[17:03] SPEAKER_00:** Interesting. Yeah, right, okay, that’s a good strong point. So if you compare to Bitcoin—which I know less about the history of the development of Bitcoin—it was kind of similar. There was no premine and no token presale. And so the people who were in it were in it for general interest and it was really sincerely an even playing field. And I would argue, and in some ways Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin, especially since, let’s say, 2015. Some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes, and that’s kind of part of why it holds its value in some way. But it’s been stifled a little bit for that reason. I think it’s pretty hard probably to make step-function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner.

**[18:07] SPEAKER_01:** Another major difference there, talking about clients, is it was a very deliberate decision on Ethereum to separate the specification from the clients, and that there were multiple clients from day one. I’ll see if I can find my Twitter thread—I was finding these the other day. I was finding the first commits for pyethereum, cpp-ethereum, and go-ethereum, and they were all, I think, November or December 2013, not even 2014, for those three. And then EthereumJ looked like it started in about April, I think. But you know—

**[18:52] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, Jim, Kieren, you guys started EthereumH in 2014.

**[18:56] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, we were much later.

**[18:58] SPEAKER_02:** We were.

**[19:01] SPEAKER_03:** When did we get—quarter 2014.

**[19:03] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, that’s right.

**[19:04] SPEAKER_02:** That’s about right.

**[19:07] SPEAKER_00:** And I had worked on Ethereum just in the summer, so starting kind of maybe June 2014. I got to know the project pretty well, and then I’d gone back to Berkeley. I was in New York for the summer and met Jim September, October, something like that. And we started work more or less right away. More Jim than me. But so yeah, there was a big time delay on our side. And yeah, Bob, it’s an interesting point, right? I think probably there could have been some real mismanagement at different times, both with the running out of funds, not doing any hedging. And then later, I guess I agree that it could have just been more fair and open feeling, and that would have alienated fewer people, and it could have even just been bigger than it is today. Obviously we’re talking about a smashing success here, but it’s sort of the idea and the community was so powerful that it definitely succeeded in spite of aspects. I think there was value still in this: throw it out there, get people to fight over it, but probably overcorrected. And lots of these people also just went and started their own thing.

**[20:28] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, the other thing is right at the start there, it’s like, well, the people doing it, that was the whole world, right? That was everything. Several months. All of that early work on the clients actually was before the Foundation even existed. That was actually unfunded.

**[20:44] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[20:46] SPEAKER_01:** Because I’m looking at the dates. So the white paper came out in November 2013. Pyethereum was started on November 19, 2013. Gav actually was in contact with Vitalik on that same day. Cpp-ethereum started four days later, 23rd of December—obviously some over-Christmas hacking on these things going on. And then go-ethereum was December 26th, so just three further days. The Foundation got formed I think in April or May 2014, but the crowdsale didn’t conclude until September 2014. So you’d actually got about nine months worth of development on all of these three clients that was actually unfunded. So I think that unfairness kind of came in a little bit later. I think for that phase it was like nobody got funded. Sorry, nobody got funded, though there was the retrospective payback, right? When the crowdsale had gone through, you had money for early contributors, which I think was nearly 10% for like 100, 120 people. Some people made out like absolute bandits for those early months. But then, yeah, following that, there was hiring of actual staff onto those teams, and that is when it became kind of uneven, because you already had EthereumJ for a number of months there and that never got funded, and then you had you guys starting whenever you were starting. So yeah, it kind of became uneven at that point.

And probably the worst of it of all was for Parity. When that team spun out, you basically did have a major, rapidly load-bearing client and it was just unfunded. Especially with Gav, who had been the CTO and wrote the Yellow Paper and had the first working client, and all of the value he delivered, and then it’s like, “Right, sorry, you’re out and you’re not getting any money.”

**[23:20] SPEAKER_00:** Yes.

**[23:21] SPEAKER_02:** Do you—

**[23:23] SPEAKER_00:** So my memory around the C++ client was that there were funds to do a security audit for two clients, but one at a time, and it was tight, right? And so they did go-ethereum first, and I think they did actually do the security audit on cpp-ethereum, but I’m not quite sure they did.

**[23:47] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe there’d been an intention to do that, but then the money ran out before it happened. My understanding in terms of uptake as well is cpp-ethereum was working first, but then go-ethereum just caught up and overtook it really fast. So when they were making those decisions on cutting funding, which would have been mid-2015, it’s like, “Hey, Gav, you’re the CTO, but it’s your codebase that’s got a problem.” And then that’s what happened.

**[24:27] SPEAKER_00:** And I mean, I was sort of—

**[24:30] SPEAKER_03:** Building the various clients quite a bit, because I was trying to integrate with them at the time. And my memory was that the C++ client had all the newest stuff in it first. So if I wanted to see something first, I would go there. But the Go client was more stable, because I think because they were putting so much stuff into the C++ client, it was often in an unstable situation. And so I would typically kind of go to C++ first to see the new stuff, but if it wasn’t building that day, I would run over to Go and try it out.

**[25:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, and that would make complete sense, because the other thing to know with the C++ client is that was where the test suites were done. All the tests were generated out of that codebase. So as you say, all of the protocol changes or whatever would happen there first, then you do the test generation through that, and then those were the tests for other clients. So even when cpp-ethereum as a client died, it didn’t die within that testing suite for years. It’s like, right, even though nobody’s actually running this or using it on mainnet or anything, we’ve got to keep maintaining that, one, because that’s where the tests are coming from.

So yeah, that front line was really like leading across solc, the tests, and cpp-ethereum. All of those actually were bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the GUI apps, like with Mix and Aleph 0, Aleph 1. It took 24 hours to build the bloody thing. But that will be because it was all around Gav, right? Gav was leading all of that. He was building that client, he was writing the Yellow Paper, he was working there with Christian and Christoph on that specification and testing stuff. All of that was there. And then on Geth, on Jeff’s side, just doing Geth, right? It wasn’t a broader thing. And that Geth team were working closer with Mist, with Ethereum Mist, for a good while. I don’t think cpp-ethereum even worked with Mist. It’s like all these groups not really talking to each other. But yeah, that would make sense. A lot of it was Gav-led.

**[27:08] SPEAKER_02:** And wait, solc, the Solidity compiler—that was part of that C++ group too? That makes sense because it was written—

**[27:18] SPEAKER_01:** In C++. But yeah, it was all under Web3 umbrella.

**[27:24] SPEAKER_00:** I remember Web3 umbrella.

**[27:26] SPEAKER_02:** I remember Web3 umbrella, yes.

**[27:28] SPEAKER_01:** So yeah, Web3 umbrella was a Git repo with subrepos for—you know, it was called “eth,” just called “eth,” the executable. So you had “f” and “g.” But yeah, you had “eth,” you had solc, you had Mix, which was the original IDE. You had Aleph 0, which was the GUI miner.

**[28:03] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, that’s right.

**[28:04] SPEAKER_01:** So it’s like, right, here’s a GUI, press the Mine button, and then you had Aleph 1, which was sort of, I guess it was kind of like a GUI client runner thing. I can’t remember the exact scope, but it was sort of like, right, you’re running a node, but you’ve kind of got a GUI on it. And I can’t remember what it had, but whatever—logs going by, and I guess you could fiddle with settings or whatever. But yeah, all of that was in Web3 umbrella.

**[28:37] SPEAKER_02:** That’s a lot.

**[28:40] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. And all of the dependent—they were all really codependent. I mean, when I started, one of the first things I did was like, what are the dependencies on all of these things? What is all of this stuff? Because you had libraries with it as well. It’s like libethereum, libweb3base, web3base.

**[29:02] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, devp2p, libp2p. There were documentation all over the place.

**[29:10] SPEAKER_01:** I think what had happened there, that Gav was sort of trying to do, but it never came to fruition and then he left, was: it’s like, right, let’s try and make this modular. We’re going to try and do a modular thing and pull apart the networking and the database and this, that, and the other. But it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these. So you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway. You couldn’t mix and match because there was no versioning, there was no interface discipline on any of it. You had to use all the latest ones together. But then it was all split into these separate repos. So it’s like, right, you’re making a change on one of them, and then updating the submodules, and that wasn’t atomic. It was just a big old mess.

So yeah, one of the first things I did was infer a dependency diagram, map a path to pulling it all back into a monolithic workspace, doing automated builds that we somehow didn’t have, and specifically decoupling solc and the tests from the client. For solc, for example, because it was tied in with this full workspace, it was literally a 24-hour build. It was like compiling Chromium from source twice, compiling Qt, all of this stuff. So just to get—and there weren’t binaries available for solc either. You had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to compile a smart contract, to do anything. You have to do all of that. So I remember after all that decomposition, I got it so you could just do solc and that was a quick build. And then I did Homebrew, and it’s like, so you could do `brew install solc` and it did it in like five seconds. And that was like, oh my God, this is amazing. But yeah, it was a bit of a mess.

**[31:31] SPEAKER_02:** I do remember waiting many times, trying to build things, coming back, looking at it, saying like, this can’t be—my machine’s got to be broken because it can’t be this long. Can’t be like eight hours. Like nothing I could imagine would take more than eight hours to do. But you’re right, it just—

**[31:52] SPEAKER_01:** You know, talking about that creative brew of lots of different people and uncoordinated and everything: one of my first observations on joining the Foundation is these people seem allergic to professionalism, because that seems, in an organized way—well, you’re one of the baddies, you’re the status quo, you’re trying to subvert it and take it over. Things as simple as: have we got technical leads that actually lead? Have we got any project management? Have we got any IT? Have we got anything? And it’s like, no, it’s just a jumble of people doing stuff. And it’s like, how on earth can you develop software in such a chaotic environment? But that was kind of the vibe as well. That was seen as a good thing, because that’s a defensive cultural thing, right? We don’t want this to be a Silicon Valley thing.

**[32:56] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[32:56] SPEAKER_00:** I think I just have a comment. It’s interesting and maybe I commented on this in one of the other videos: one of these rare big software projects that did not very much come from the United States. It’s Canada, it’s different parts of Europe. And one of those confusing things, to your point about who got paid for the clients in the Foundation: I think I remember there being a deal struck with Zug, the canton, basically, around it. There’s tax stuff and all that sort of thing. But they also sort of intended to hire and operate locally. People would either move there or they’d hire ETH Zurich grads or whatever. And I don’t know the details specifically, but I think that didn’t quite end up happening that way, and sort of as a surprise. And I saw some of this firsthand at the meeting in which Amir and Charles were sent on their way. The client team set up in their own countries, and that was like a bit of a script flip. Like Gavin wanted to be in Berlin because the devs were good and they’d be living there inexpensive. And yeah, I think it’s just—you would, running my own business, you would never make such a decision in such a flip manner where overnight we’re like, “Oh, we’re doing a different country.” But that was kind of a regular occurrence to some extent—major things changing as part of how the Foundation-plus sort of operated that I saw. And again, it didn’t seem to hurt quite as much as you might expect. But yeah, you had to have— you were lucky in how people worked, how excited people were about the project, that it survived all of this. And again, from our side, we’re sitting in the Bay Area at that time and we’re like, why do they keep doing all of these things? Like they’re trying to build a thousand things and it’s hard to build one thing.

**[35:10] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, so there were separate legal entities for those as well, right? So you have FDEV AG in Berlin. And then there was an Amsterdam thing for the Geth team. You had the London stuff as well, which was mainly communications sort of stuff, with Stefan and George Hallam, Ian Meikle, and one other person who I forget. But you sort of talk about these people working for the Ethereum Foundation, but it was always woollier than that. So yeah, you did have the Stiftung in Zug, but most people, even if they’re working full time, they weren’t actually working for that. So when I had my contract, it was with the for-profit FDEV in Berlin. That was who I was actually working for. And then they were funded by the Foundation. And FDEV in general—that was another big split that there was, right? You got the Foundation, but then you had FDEV that was like the kind of umbrella group for that, that Gav was leading essentially. So I think the Amsterdam thing rolled into Berlin. I think that was all sort of FDEV side. And that in itself was a huge item of conflict. I know again, in Laura’s book, I think Joe was talking about that, right? That Gav kind of wanted a big chunk of money. It’s like, right, the funds are there from the crowdsale now, so give them all to us. And it’s like, I don’t know that we want to give you all the funds as you go. But that was typical of that period: just a mess of complexity and interpersonal things and organizational complexity.

And with that Swiss people thing: my understanding on that was that was a main motivation for renting that spaceship building, right? The intention was that there were going to be a load of people there. I think testing was one of the ones I heard was maybe a goal: “Right, we’re going to get a load of Swiss people to test things.” And there’s also Mihai with his holon ideas, holons of these co-working spacey things around the world.

**[37:53] SPEAKER_02:** And to make it a little bit more woolly: at the same time, very shortly, ConsenSys emerged out of that too, and they were doing a bunch of work. We were technically working under ConsenSys for the first parts of it too. And all of that was in the mix everywhere.

So I want to jump ahead a bit because we have you as an ETC expert, and in our last one we had a lot of questions around what we’ve remembered from Slock.it and the DAO hack. So maybe you could walk us through that and how ETC emerged out of that. That part was a little bit vague to us because we didn’t follow much on how those pieces all came together.

**[38:41] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. So I mean one of the groups or companies that came out of this kind of shrinking of the Foundation was that on that C++ team that got most of the cuts, a good chunk of those people went straight to Parity and just carried on with that new client. But Christoph Jentzsch, who had been leading that testing effort that we were just talking about—those same tests—he and Stefan Tual, who had been communications lead, community stuff, and Lefteris, who’d also been on C++ team, those three went off and formed a company called Slock.it. So Slock.it being smart locks, just the idea that if you’re doing an Airbnb or something, that you could have a smart lock and you could do your contract with someone for the rental, and then that could be enabling something on the lock that’s checking an oracle or an on-chain thing and so on.

And so that was their product area. At Devcon 1 they did an on-stage demo that was like a kettle, like a pot. It was like doing a transaction that turned it on to make a cup of tea. That was the on-stage demo. But what seemed to happen there was: they didn’t want to do an ICO. They wanted it to be fairer, I guess, because around that era, you saw lots of cash-grab ICOs and it’s like, right, here’s all the money up front, we’re not going to deliver, what are you going to do? So they didn’t want to do that, because they were very genuine people who’d come out of the Foundation and were ideologically driven.

So Vitalik had written stuff about DAOs, right? I think they were mentioned in the white paper even. And it’s like, well, maybe we can make a DAO. And I think that was just the Slock.it DAO, really, originally. And it was like, right, we’re going to have a DAO. The money is going to go into there, but then it’s only going to get released to us as we deliver milestones. So it’s kind of like this separation of: right, the DAO is where the money is and that’s controlled by the token holders; Slock.it as a company is a service provider into that, but we’re a sackable service provider and we’re only going to get paid as we go through the milestones. So it’s like, oh, that’s really interesting. And to my understanding, that’s what was presented at Devcon 1.

**[41:54] SPEAKER_02:** Okay.

**[41:55] SPEAKER_01:** I remember it was like, “Hey, we’re Slock.it, this is what we’re doing, and we’re going to do a DAO with it.” And it’s like, oh cool. But then they kept working on that DAO stuff after Devcon 1, and it just seemed to warp into, “Well, we’ve made a DAO framework. It’s a DAO library,” because we want other people to be able to do this as well. But then that sort of turned into, “Well, actually, how about it isn’t just us? How about it could be anything? Anyone could have a service provider. You could propose anything into it.” And then it became The DAO.

**[42:32] SPEAKER_02:** Okay.

**[42:34] SPEAKER_01:** And it wasn’t capped. There was no cap on the contributions into it. There was really nothing else that you could do on Ethereum at that point. It was kind of like the first application, really. Well, I mean, you did have a few: you had Digix, this gold thing. You did have Dai, I think, was sort of coming to life just about at that point. But The DAO was kind of like the first big thing, right? And it just sort of snowballed and snowballed, right? Because it was also touted as zero risk, because you could exit with your funds, right? If you didn’t like the result of what was happening, you could just exit and have your Ether back. So it’s kind of like this is risk free, right? It’s like a sovereign bond or whatever. There’s no downside here. This is risk free. So tons of people are like, “Well, what else am I going to do? I’m just sitting here on my Ether, I can’t do anything.” Well, pile on in. And the Ethereum crowdsale raised, what is it, 16 million, I think, in Bitcoin, which was, I think, my number five crowdsale of all time. It was like comparing to Kickstarter projects, right? So it’s like, maybe they’ll do two or three million, maybe five. And it just went until it was just absolutely gigantic. And I remember at the time thinking, this is—I don’t like this. The DAO is not—this is not a good idea.

**[44:13] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah.

**[44:14] SPEAKER_01:** And the main reason I was thinking of that was: is this a security? Is this seen as money-transfer stuff? Because you’ve got Slock.it the company, and then they had this thing called DAO Link that was sort of a service company for paying people in real life. That was some Swiss thing, I think, or what’s Bitcoin Suisse? And then you have the DAO itself. You had the curators as well. So anyone could propose a smart contract that encoded their proposal, right? They would make a written description of the thing, and “Here’s a smart contract doing it.” And the curator’s role was like to verify what they’ve sort of said in text is kind of what they’ve done. It was meant to be like this administrative role.

But what happened is: all of those guys, their names and faces were up on the website. So like the DAO Hub website is just like a who’s who of the Ethereum Foundation, basically. And it didn’t say “Christian Reitwiessner, creator of Solidity.” It said, “Christian Reitwiessner, Ethereum Foundation,” “Vitalik, Ethereum Foundation.” So lots of people were like, “This is an Ethereum Foundation project,” right? Because you’ve all got your names on everything.

So I thought there was, firstly, huge legal liability on those guys, because where Slock.it had got these layers of legal protection, these guys haven’t. They’re just doing it as individuals. And I remember Fabian talking to me and talking to the group in the Foundation: “I’ve been talking to some of my friends and they don’t think this is a great idea. And I’m thinking of talking to a lawyer.” And Gav backed out, right? A couple of weeks before the disaster, Gav just backed out. He’s like, “This is not what I signed up for. I thought it was just a small role, and now it’s presented as a lot more.” And so he backed out. A lot of the others didn’t because if we back out, it’s going to ruin it, and it’s like a great experiment.

But I thought there was huge liability to them. I thought there were legal risks. And I also just thought it was a stupid idea. Like why would you have thousands of random people putting their money in a bucket, and then let’s vote on what to do with it? Who are these people? What do they even know about a business proposal or anything? It’s just like, this is a stupid idea. But I didn’t have my eye on the fact that all of the tech stack was incredibly immature at that point, right? There’s no best practices, there’s no libraries. It’s just here’s some code. And they just went all in, right? It was like “code is law,” “the smart contract is the contract,” “YOLO, you can’t stop us.”

**[47:36] SPEAKER_02:** But okay. And then the hack happens, right? And I remember the details of the hack being they found a flaw in the smart contract code and they could basically withdraw those funds into another account. And I remember there was some kind of race between the people at The DAO/Slock.it who were using the same exploit to drain the account—like using the same hack, basically. Is that right?

**[48:07] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. So there was this reentrancy bug where it’s really sort of to do with atomic operations or order of operations. So your reentrancy was that you could be calling—because people were supplying their proposals, and it’s like, “Hey, here’s a smart contract that’s implementing mine.” You were calling into their code, but you can’t know what theirs is going to do. So there was this reentrancy issue where within that other person-supplied code you could kind of call back in.

And it was sort of to do with child DAOs. So this whole zero-risk thing was like: if you didn’t like proposals that were happening, you could make a child DAO of saying, “Well, hey, I’m out,” right? “I’m taking my Ether and my voting off into this other one. I’m not following you; I’m going there.” And other people could join you as well. So I guess the idea was like, right, here we’ve got this totally over-general DAO, but we’re going to make a DeFi DAO or an NFT DAO or whatever, right? And it’s like, I guess, a little bit like some of the thoughts for ConsenSys and hub-and-spoke. You’re going to get this universe of stuff just flourishing out in child DAOs and so on.

But yeah, the problem on that child DAO thing is that there was this reentrancy bug where rather than just being able to pull your ETH, or your share, you can actually go in and pull more and more. So you have this: using this, had a child DAO and pulling a giant amount of the funds into that child DAO, and then within 30 days they’d be able to exit with the funds. But the blessing of that setup is they’re not immediately exiting with the funds, right? They haven’t gone already and sold it on an exchange and they’re done before you notice. You have got this period. And then the other thing is that you could join them. You can go into the child DAO as well.

So after the hack, there was this appeal out: “Hey, did anyone participate in this specific child?” “Is anyone in there?” It’s like, yeah, somebody else is in there. And then what you could do is you could child DAO again. It’s like, you can do another one. It’s like, right, well, I’m going to grab it off you, and you’re going to grab it off me. And so you could have had this DAO wars thing of: you can never stop it, but you could delay it indefinitely.

So that was one of them. But then the other white-hat thing is like: okay, well, we know about the bug, so we can do it too. You can have white-hat people like, well, we’re going to steal all of the money out of the top DAO as well, but we’re doing it for good. We’re doing it here to keep it, to give it back.

**[51:09] SPEAKER_02:** Right?

**[51:09] SPEAKER_01:** So yeah, you had all of those games going on within that existing setup. But then as a reaction to that, you had all of this discussion about: well, are we going to react, are we not going to react? First, the first proposal was a soft fork, but it was just going to blacklist stuff to do with the hacker, right?

**[51:35] SPEAKER_02:** And they did do that soft fork, right? I remember they did that soft—

**[51:38] SPEAKER_01:** Fork first—what was done for it. And I think it might even have gone on testnets and things, but it never went live—

**[51:45] SPEAKER_02:** Okay.

**[51:46] SPEAKER_01:** Because it was spotted that it was a denial-of-service attack, because that blacklisting was not accounted for in the cryptoeconomics. So it was like, yeah, you had a denial-of-service attack thing on that soft fork. So it got done and then it got undone. And then the hard fork was like: okay, we can go in and we can do an irregular state transaction where, at a certain block, you’re just going to have a hardcoded thing which sticks different bytecode into the address of The DAO, which is like, okay, yeah, that thing, it didn’t happen. What’s actually at that address is a simple refund thing where you can all get your money back. So that was the hard fork.

**[52:50] SPEAKER_02:** Okay.

**[52:53] SPEAKER_00:** I just wanted to ask: where were you at this time? Because I know you got involved, I believe, later with ETC, because it didn’t exist yet. And so, you know, in terms of your personal perspective on all this: were you actually implementing anything yourself? Because obviously you’ve got pretty deep knowledge of the technical internals. Where are you?

**[53:16] SPEAKER_01:** I was working for the Foundation. I was on the C++ team at that point. This is about three or four months after I’d started. The thing that was really interesting to me was how different people’s thoughts or perspectives were even within the Foundation. You’d have people working on Geth going, “Well, of course we shouldn’t do anything,” or “Well, of course we should.” And it’s like, been working with you for a year—what? You had this real mixture of reactions.

And my first reaction was, well, of course you don’t do anything. It’s an immutable blockchain. That’s the whole point. You don’t like the outcome—well, you know, tough. You’ve seen so many, like Mt. Gox. With Mt. Gox, you didn’t have the Bitcoiners going, “Let’s try and fix this up.” And I think the only reason it happened was because of the scale of it, that it was a significant chunk of the entire ETH money base. And also I think things weren’t super great on funding, and it wasn’t like Ethereum was sure to succeed. It was quite nascent at that point.

And I know that there were also worries about the proof-of-stake transition and the fact that if you had a large amount of the Ether in hostile hands, that you could maybe have years of griefing attacks and stuff like that. But also I think there was just— a lot of people were like, “Well, this is theft.” That money was intended for building the ecosystem, and some guys come in and stole it. And if we can fix that, we should. So yeah, my immediate reaction was you shouldn’t, but it was like, well, whatever. That seems to be the consensus that we do it, and okay, off we go. Though I wasn’t at the Foundation many more months after that anyway.

But there was this real schism, though, I think, from what I saw. I think probably about 85% of people wanted to do the hard fork and 15 didn’t, or maybe 80/20. But I think there was pretty strong consensus to do it. But that was very contentious for a not-tiny group of people that had got involved with Ethereum, because they kind of wanted Bitcoin with smart contracts. And if you’re of that Bitcoiny mindset, then yeah, of course you don’t screw with things.

But I think there’s also this larger group that were like, well, Ether isn’t money anyway. That was a messaging that had been given out at the time: “No, no, it’s fuel,” right? “It’s fuel for the engine.” Though I think part of that is just trying to dodge legal liability. But that was also true as well. This whole world computer—here’s a platform, right? It’s a platform like the web or Android. So I think it was sort of like that was the mental split: is it money? And if it’s money, you don’t move people’s money without private keys. That’s a mortal sin. And on the other side, you’re like, well, no, it’s a bug, right? It’s a bug in the platform. And it’s like, well, but it was a bug in the smart contract. Well, if you’ve worked on serious software projects, people hack on the wrong layers all the time, right? Because it’s going to give you a better user experience. You don’t have to be pure on that. It’s really about how the thing works. So you get hacks in the wrong layers all the time. And if you’re just seeing it as a software platform, then yeah, it’s a bug. You fix the bug.

**[57:59] SPEAKER_02:** So it’s rare in life that you can actually see a counterfactual, but in this case we can because ETC was created at that time and kind of emerged out of that. So can you talk a little bit about that, and how has that gone? Because you’re deep into that ecosystem, obviously, as the director of the Ethereum Classic Cooperative. How does it work now? How did those worlds divide, and then how are those worlds continuing over that?

**[58:32] SPEAKER_01:** Month or so, right, where it’s like the money’s been stolen into the sub-DAO, are we going to do anything? You have the most vigorous debate on all platforms, right? It was the topic: what’s going to happen, how’s it going to go, and everything. So I don’t think there’s anyone that was unaware of this stuff happening. Everyone with their eyes open.

But yeah, you just have this group of people kind of gathering together and it’s like, no, we’re not going to go with it. This is not going to happen. Or at least, we’re not following that hard fork. Maybe people do, but a bunch of people deciding not to.

The other thing I thought was really interesting at the time, and was to my mind the best thing of all about that chain split, is to that point I don’t think there’d ever been a minority chain that survived, right? The standard thinking is: you’re going to have a winning side and a losing side, and it’s going to happen, and we’ll see where are the people going, which is the winner, and then the losers, people will stop mining, it’ll just die, right? Because it’s the loser chain. So there’s no economic value there and forget it. But what actually happened on the ETC side is you had miners that were like, “Well, I’m just going to keep on mining. I’m not updating.” Some of them going, “The evil Ethereum Foundation,” and “Vitalik’s a dictator.” I don’t think any of that’s true, but you have got people that were like, no, I’m going to keep going. And then look, block production’s still going, and it’s still happening there. And then Poloniex listed it, and then it’s got a market value, and then you’ve got speculative activity around that. You’ve got ETH holders dumping their ETC: “Hey, it’s free money.” But also you’ve got other people on the other side going, “Well, I see real value here, and this ETC is going cheap.” So notably Barry Silbert, who first was non-bitcoiny in Ethereum to that point presumably, based on premine and various other things, but was like, “Well, actually, an immutability-focused ETC would be really interesting.” So yeah, you just got this sort of grassroots thing forming. You got volunteers jumping up saying, “Hey, I’m a developer, I’ll keep maintaining the Classic Geth clients,” and so on, and it found its own lifestyle.

You had the Ethereum subreddit as a primary communication platform at that point, and then you had an /r/EthereumClassic one being created, and some people in one side, some on the other. But it got quite bitter in the end. You’ve got a lot of people that were like, “Foundation, you guys, you just ruined the project.” And you had people on the other side seeing ETC as really illegitimate, saying, “Well, look, it’s just a money grab. You just want your free money. Why are these Bitcoiners kind of coming over? They weren’t interested in Ethereum before and now they are. That’s not good.” And you did obviously have a bunch of speculators in there as well, so that’s sort of a bit nasty too.

But I think the thing that severed those communities finally was this “100% ETH” meme, which came about because somebody tweeted, “Hey Vitalik, I hear that you’re working on Ethereum Classic. Is there any truth to this?” And he said, “No, I’m only working on Ethereum.” And the person then said, “Well, what if ETC had more market cap than Ethereum?” And he said, “No, I still wouldn’t work on it. 100% ETH.” He wasn’t saying it in a purity pledge way. He was just, in the way he does, making a factual statement. But then I remembered Joe replied, “I’m 100% ETH.” And then it’s like everyone’s doing it, right? It’s this purity pledge. Everyone is expected to pledge allegiance to ETH. So it became a bit of: “Oh, is this an either/or? You can’t be in both. If you’re interested in ETC, then you’re a dirty person.” So I think that really wedged it permanently apart at that point.

And also, a number of the people that were volunteering on ETC were really angry. They were like, “I’ve been involved for two, two and a bit years in this project, really pumped about everything that you can do with Ethereum, and then you guys have wrecked it.” So there was a lot of bitterness from that ETC side back. But then things kind of split apart, and over time, ETC found its own path. So with the real differentiation being, firstly, that the DAO hack didn’t happen. That was the only initial difference. Very rapidly though, there was this conclusion that fixed economic policy was needed. That ETC was really like Bitcoin with Ethereum technology, but Bitcoin culture and ethos, right? So it’s like, right, there’s no fixed monetary policy for Ethereum. And I mean you see this over many years: change of block rewards, ice age delays, fee burning, many, many changes.

So that was the first major change on the ETC side: introduction of that fixed monetary policy, because there was consensus that that was an important bad inheritance that we want to fix. And the other thing that that enabled was the Grayscale ETC fund. So at that point it’s like, right, okay, this is really a Bitcoin-feeling thing and there’s a feeling that there’s a value here. So then from Grayscale they created the ETC Cooperative that I work for. So a share of the fees went into that kind of—not quite a foundation, but a bit like a foundation, a nonprofit to support the ecosystem.

And then the other thing more recently is just proof of work. There was fairly rapidly a consensus that ETC wanted to stick with proof of work indefinitely. Proof of stake was seen as a centralizing, oligarchic kind of thing that didn’t really fit with that ethos. But more generally, ETC is tracking protocol changes in Ethereum, very compatible.

**[1:06:09] SPEAKER_02:** So there have been forks but not the hard fork along the way because—

**[1:06:14] SPEAKER_01:** Well, so yeah, I mean, they’re hard forks but not chain splits.

**[1:06:19] SPEAKER_02:** Got it. Okay.

**[1:06:20] SPEAKER_01:** In all protocol updates on Ethereum as well, they’re all hard forks and the old side doesn’t actually go away. You could run a Frontier node if you wanted. You can mine on Frontier, mine the Olympic testnet, mine any of these ones. It’s just you have had them wither and die because there hasn’t been contention. But on ETC you have sufficient contention that you had a chain split. But yeah, I guess that’s a Bitcoiner thing: saying forks are bad.

**[1:06:58] SPEAKER_02:** Right.

**[1:06:58] SPEAKER_01:** But it’s like contentious hard forks are bad. Hard forks are an upgrade mechanism for the protocol.

**[1:07:07] SPEAKER_02:** Got it.

**[1:07:08] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I mean I remember I had to implement that for a few years ago, and it was pretty blatant. It was just like, take money from here and place it here. By the way, it didn’t bug me.

**[1:07:19] SPEAKER_01:** But we had people in BlockApps—

**[1:07:21] SPEAKER_03:** Who thought of it as like a stab to the back. They were so upset by it.

**[1:07:26] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, well, I mean, it’s literally: here’s an array of addresses, right, to mess with.

**[1:07:31] SPEAKER_00:** Yep.

**[1:07:32] SPEAKER_03:** I remember that was—I don’t remember what else was in there, but I remember the majority of it was just like take a bunch of money and put it into these addresses. And that was the fork.

**[1:07:42] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. For this list of addresses, replace the bytecode with this other bytecode. And also, yeah, I think the moving was consolidating the child DAOs. I think that’s what that was doing. So it’s like move the money from the child DAOs back into the parent DAO and change the bytecode. I think if block equals this, do a horrible thing.

**[1:08:13] SPEAKER_02:** But yeah, in the ETC world where the DAO hack happened, are those funds—did the hacker pull out those funds? Did—okay, so like—

**[1:08:27] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah.

**[1:08:28] SPEAKER_02:** Interesting.

**[1:08:29] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean, again, Laura Shin has a great write-up of all of this in her book, The Cryptopians, including working out who it probably was.

**[1:08:40] SPEAKER_02:** Oh, wow. Okay.

**[1:08:41] SPEAKER_01:** Well, so she didn’t name names in the book, but then she did an article on the release day or just before naming who she thinks it was. So that’s an interesting story. I’ll dig out that article and send it to you guys so you can add it to the description here.

**[1:09:03] SPEAKER_02:** Cool. But, you know, Bob, you’re a natural-born bridge builder. As we said, you get along with everyone. Do you ever see the valley between Ethereum and Ethereum Classic narrowing or getting better? Or do you think it is getting better?

**[1:09:25] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, the problem that Ethereum Classic has always had from the time of the split—and it comes back to money again—I think that was the one thing that the Foundation did wrong. Not talking about the developers or the decision on that or whatever, but to only put the money on one side. Because what that did is disenfranchised a good chunk of people who had invested in the presale, who’d been part of that community, who’d genuinely been actively involved for those first two years, and they were just left in the dust. It’s like, “Well, you guys, we don’t care what you think. Goodbye.” And the trademark’s going this way, and all the funds are going this way, and all the developers went that way as well. And obviously the Foundation can’t control that—people choose to work on what they want to work on—but what that meant is effectively that group of people got defunded. Totally done. “I disavow you, and I’ll kick you out of the house forever, and we shall never talk to you again.”

I think in retrospect it should have been like, okay, funding is available for that other fork as well. And you may hate us and not want to talk to us, but I guess it’s like a child, a teenager: “I’m leaving home.” And it’s like, okay, I’m not going to stop putting aside savings and money for you. You might not love me now, but you’re my child too, and we’ll find a way of making it happen. Because with this cooperative, it could have been: when that came into existence, the Foundation could have gone, “Well, okay, here’s a body that can help, and there you go, we’re going to fund it as well.”

And there was something a little tiny bit like that with Virgil. So Virgil was also a huge bridge builder between Ethereum and Ethereum Classic. So in 2018, he invited Anthony Zuiker, who was my predecessor, to speak at Edcon. So this was May 2018, and that was the first Ethereum Classic talk at an Ethereum event. It’d been nearly two years at that point. And it was fine and it was cool and everyone was friendly. Vitalik and various others came to that talk and it was all kind of friendly. And Anthony invited me to Ethereum Classic Summit, which was in September 2018. So myself and Virgil went and spoke at that event.

And around that time, they somehow found some ETC that the Foundation still had. Generally they did a market dump at that time, but there was some stuff that they found. It’s like 50 grand or something like that. And so we got that donated to the co-op. That was a really nice kind of thing, but it was kind of like, here’s a little gesture.

But really I think that was a real failing, because it was a legitimate, irreconcilable difference, but it was made even worse by this 100% ETH purity pledge, combined again with all the money’s gone. So you end up with a very small community of mainly people who are very ideologically outraged by it. If you’ve got speculative token holders, obviously they’re going to stick with Ethereum—what’s this other thing, this new thing, and there’s nothing. So that’s always been the issue that ETC’s had: lack of money and interest, really.

More recently we’ve had support from Bitmain after the Merge, with Ethereum moving to proof of stake. All of a sudden ETC is one of the larger mining ecosystems. So all of a sudden, we’re very aligned with Bitmain. They want to sell ASICs, they want to be using Antpool for mining. So they’re supporting a grant program now. But yeah, ETC is small, but you have some people and that’s what they want.

**[1:14:22] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, and as you said, it’s broken the model of like side chain surviving, right? Like it really—you know, it’s possible. Oh, sorry, go ahead, Kieren.

**[1:14:36] SPEAKER_00:** I wanted to talk quickly about the definition of success for blockchains, market caps and all that sort of thing. And I was looking today because Ethereum’s market cap is in the 200 billions, Ethereum Classic is still at number 28, which is quite impressive, and is 2.6 billion in market cap. I think market cap is probably more of an indicator of popularity than anything sort of truly long term. It’s not quite like with companies where market cap is probably a better indicator of how important they are, but it is also still—and if you look, yeah—

**[1:15:24] SPEAKER_01:** If you look in CoinGecko: Ethereum Classic is higher than Cosmos, than Filecoin, than Hedera, than Internet Computer, than Aptos, than Lido, than NEAR, than Optimism, than Arbitrum, than The Graph—

**[1:15:43] SPEAKER_00:** And so I wanted to follow: is market cap a good goal? What is your goal for ETC? If you were trying to make up the gap with Ethereum, what would you do? Would you do anything differently?

**[1:16:02] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, I think to do that you just need vast investment into application layer. I think that’s somewhere where ETC really can’t compete with many other VC chains that have huge treasuries that can be spending tens or hundreds of millions on grant programs. We can’t compete that way. But also, as you say, it’s a bit of a vanity metric in a way. There are many other vanity metrics that we commonly see in the space. Because yeah, if you want the fastest chain or the most money or whatever, that’s not going to be ETC. It can never be ETC. But for people that are interested, that’s not the goal, right? They’re looking for something which is basically like Bitcoin plus smart contracts, with that kind of strong non-intervention kind of bias. And also proof of work. A lot of people see real value in proof of work and are very skeptical of proof-of-stake systems. So it’s not winner-takes-all.

**[1:17:29] SPEAKER_00:** It’s been interesting just how not winner-takes-all the blockchain space has been. They’re like cockroaches. They just kind of keep going. I know they get delisted occasionally, but how many—let’s see how many pages you can get to on—

**[1:17:46] SPEAKER_02:** Can we call them tree clippings instead of—

**[1:17:50] SPEAKER_01:** 20,000 is the figure I’ve heard. Yeah, 20,000 live chains.

**[1:17:55] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, that’s quite a number and very interesting kind of in and of itself. Viktor, you were saying something when I made my comment.

**[1:18:04] SPEAKER_02:** Oh no, no, no. I was just saying I was going to ask you more questions about the early days of the EF. But I think we will have to invite you back because I’m pretty sure we could have another 90-minute conversation on that. But it’s been great to have you, Bob, as always. You’ve always been a great friend and a wealth of information on the space. So thank you for joining us and we hope you’ll come back again soon.

**[1:18:35] SPEAKER_01:** Well, thank you, and sorry for monopolizing.

**[1:18:39] SPEAKER_02:** No, this—exactly.

**[1:18:40] SPEAKER_00:** That’s why you’re here. Yeah, exactly. Your story. We’ve told plenty of ours. Should we—you know, I see on other podcasts—should we send people anywhere? Where can people find you? Do you want them to find you, etc.?

**[1:18:56] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I can drop you some links afterwards. But yeah, my own website is bobsonworld.com. Ethereumclassic.org is the main sort of landing page for ECC.

**[1:19:10] SPEAKER_02:** Awesome.

**[1:19:11] SPEAKER_00:** Fantastic. Well, thank you very much. Really appreciate your time, and I’m sure we will follow up. We’ll put our heads together and do another one when we’re all ready.

**[1:19:21] SPEAKER_02:** Yes, we’ll have to have round two. There’s plenty more stories that we haven’t even touched on yet.

**[1:19:27] SPEAKER_01:** Okay. Cheers, guys.

**[1:19:29] SPEAKER_00:** Cheers.