**[00:01] SPEAKER_00:** So hello and welcome to Early Days of Ethereum. I am delighted today to be joined by Fabian Vogelsteller. Is that the correct pronunciation? Vogelsteller. More like an F. The V is more like an F. Yes, right. Very Germanic pronunciation that's not going to come out of my mouth. So, you know, great to see you. We saw each other at DevConnect. In November, I think, for the first time for quite a while. And had a good catch up there. But hello. Hey. Yeah. What were you doing prior to wandering into blockchain world?

**[00:58] SPEAKER_02:** So, okay, let's start from the beginning. Okay. So what I was doing before blockchain, I was actually a web developer. So I started out as, I mean, I've built websites since I was 14. My Findura, the name that I have on Twitter, is actually the name of the content management system that I built, I think, in 2005. And it just happened to be, you know, turning into my second identity. So I have two identities in the internet, Frozeman and Findura. It's all just connected to two things. In GitHub, I'm Frozeman. And that's also my GitHub history with Ethereum and so on. And Findura is then my online one. And, yeah, I mean, I basically, you know, was always interested in the cutting the edge of, like, the cool internet stuff in the 90s. You know, building in the first 2000s my first websites or 1990, whatever, eight, nine. And, you know, following the whole evolution of the internet with HTML, CSS, HTML1 and 2 and CSS1 and 2 and JavaScript and coming in and blah, blah, blah. So I mainly did web development. But I studied media design. So I didn't study anything with coding. All the coding is autodidactically learned. So I haven't, yeah, there's nothing that came from, honestly, even when I joined Ethereum, I had no fucking clue about bytes and how to manipulate bytes and stuff. Still don't have, actually. So I still don't know.

**[02:37] SPEAKER_00:** You didn't have your computer science background. I don't have any computer science background.

**[02:42] SPEAKER_02:** I'm not sure what I'm, I don't know what I'm doing on the computer. I just know how to interact with, like, high-level languages. And now I only know how to speak to AI and to my team. Well, that's all you need. Things changed. And you wrote a book? I wrote a book about Meteor.js. So I, yeah, I got really, obviously, into web development. I did a lot of websites and built a lot of things. I built my own content management system in PHP. And I built a flat file-based content management system. So that means that this doesn't need a database. The whole idea was, okay, I just want to have one of these FTP, PHP-ready servers. And if I want to move my, it was literally all about the independence of hosting providers, right? If I want to move from this hosting provider to the other, I mean, back in the day, migrating databases was a nightmare and probably still is a nightmare. It was, oh, if I build a flat file-based thing, you just copy the whole folder structure over to the other server and it works. And it did. So that was what Findura.org CMS does and did. I mean, obviously, who uses a PHP today? But Facebook does. No, but I mean, yeah, now I have a bunch of haters in the PHP community. But, yeah, I mean, so, yeah, I built that thing and that was really, like, helping me, like, to kind of, like, do a full project front to end. And then I got more into JavaScript and I got really excited by Meteor.js, which was one of the first reactive JavaScript frameworks that was before Angular, before React. And it was the first time where you just could write, like, this JavaScript code and this HTML stuff. And when you update stuff in the JavaScript or in your local state, like the HTML got re-rendered natively, super magic. So I got really into this and I wrote a book about it. I have it here. If you ever want to, I would never, I would never read a tutorial book, to be honest. But I wrote one.

**[05:04] SPEAKER_00:** I don't think people even read books anymore.

**[05:06] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. I mean, honestly, I would never even, it was so much fucking work to do this. And the reason why I did this is because they reached out to me and I thought, like, yeah, I could do that. And then, you know, Marjorie, my ex-wife, back in the day, encouraged me and I thought, like, okay, why not? And on the end, it was a lot of work. I mean, literally, like, four months of waking up and I had a kid, two-year-old, two-year-old kid at a time. And I had to wake up very early or maybe a year old, I don't remember. And I had to wake up very early at five to, you know, write one or two, three pages or five pages, whatever, and then go to work. It was intense. You get an hourly rate of, like, 10 cents. So, I made totally no money. I literally probably made, like, exactly, like, 10 cents per hour or something like this. Right. But it's reputation. And in a way, I think that's also what got me into Ethereum. Right. Because what is this? Writing single-page apps with Meteor. And what is a DApp? It's a single-page app. It's the whole point. It's an app that literally runs in your browser, doesn't require a back-end. And I built, actually, a tool that allowed you to strip out the server part of the Meteor app so you can bundle it as a local app. It's actually quite – it was quite a popular repository called Meteor Build Client. And, yeah, that's what I used for DApps in the early days in Ethereum, too.

**[06:44] SPEAKER_00:** So, is Meteor still an active project? Is anyone using Meteor still?

**[06:52] SPEAKER_UNKNOWN:** Yeah.

**[06:53] SPEAKER_02:** No, I totally think so. I think so.

**[06:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah.

**[07:01] SPEAKER_02:** I mean, I don't know how frequent they are. Yeah.

**[07:07] SPEAKER_00:** I haven't checked it out in a long time. No. But, I mean, it's quite a revolution at the time, the single-page app.

**[07:15] SPEAKER_02:** It was the first, you know. It was literally, like – it was one of the first – it was the first framework that I know that really was a proper framework. And it's just solved the whole thing from account creation to reactive DOM updates to server client synchronization. It was magic. Yeah. It blew a lot of people away. And then all the others, React and so on, were kind of more like answers to this. And then React brought it back to the weird way of mixing code and UI in the same files, which I already found very bad in PHP times.

**[07:52] SPEAKER_00:** Right. Yeah. And then I guess you maybe sort of found your way into Bitcoin world in some form?

**[08:02] SPEAKER_02:** So, yeah, 2013, I heard about Canadian wants to sell a house in Bitcoin. And I thought, okay, wow. What's that? Like somebody's selling a house in a currency I've never heard of. And that really led me very quickly down the rabbit hole of – this was 2013 March. There was literally when Bitcoin hit $200 in that very same month. And number one, I saw, okay, there's money to be made here. And I was a student with no money. So, like, you know, trying – like, you have your hope. Okay, maybe I can make a little bit of money on the side this way. But I really quickly understood the fundamental power of this technology. And it took me, like, about a year to really understand how it works fully. I mean, I literally had this epiphany every month that I thought, like, now I know how it works. It took me a year to really construe my brain, you know, knowing servers and frameworks, you know, and how this basic stuff works. And then the crypto, blockchains that were just so out there in a way how this stuff works. But, yeah, so I was in the space. And then in 2014, obviously, you know, right after I joined the Bitcoin community, then there was the first altcoin, Litecoin. And then in 2013, there was a lot of, like, projects that were created trying to imitate Bitcoin or do an improvement or do alternate versions. I also got really into Mastercoin, the idea of just writing onto the Bitcoin blockchain rather than creating a separate blockchain. Right.

**[09:49] SPEAKER_00:** And you were in Berlin, right? Were you going to meetups or, like, did you find fellows? It was online.

**[09:57] SPEAKER_02:** There were no meetups at the time, really, like, not in my region. So what actually happened in 2014, and so they were done later, 2014, there were then some meetups. And so I heard about Ethereum. I really knew that I just felt immediately that this is a really powerful approach, but it also sounded so unrealistic. So when I heard, like, this, I mean, I looked at the white paper. I never really read the Ethereum white paper actually ever fully. I just literally just, like, I skipped over it. And I listened to Vitalik or, like, the early things that were floating around, and I knew this is it. The idea of making a computation machine on the blockchain makes total sense. I just thought it's so hard to do. And I didn't really give it a lot of chances that they pulled this off, but then they pulled it off pretty quickly. And it just happened so that I was at a meetup in Berlin, a Bitcoin meetup. I think the first one I was ever at. Right. They wanted to open a Bitcoin center Berlin co-working space, basically. Can you imagine what kind of month that might have been? I think that was in, I think it was August 2014. It was literally, like, a week before the Ethereum pre-sale started. Right, right. Like, literally, like, days before. So I met these guys from Ethereum. In this case, it was Aaron, who did the accounting at the time. Yeah. And they told me that they're going to open an office in Berlin, and that there's some kind of news coming out next week, but they can't tell me. And I was already following Ethereum. I was already waiting for the ICO. And, yeah, then it happened. So I took all my Bitcoin that I had at the time, which was 12 Bitcoins, converted them into Ether. I mean, people think, like, oh, my God, 12 Bitcoins, but they were, like, $600 worth or whatever. It was, like, literally not much. I put them all into Ether or pretty much everything. And I knew this was going to be big. I felt it. And this was also the first time a project where I thought I would love to work for this project because it's not about finance, money, and wallets. Because every Bitcoin startup at the time was just about creating a wallet. And I was really interested in creating apps. And so it just happened that the same, like, six months later, you know, Bitcoin happened, ICO happened, attention came, blah, blah, blah. But I just got an email from a recruiter saying the company Ethereum is looking for a C++ developer. And I was not a C++ developer. Recruiters don't check anything on LinkedIn, I guess, or GitHub. But I knew that they're now looking. So I went to their office and I just chatted with Aaron again. And I saw they had this office here, Waldemar Straße. And I realized that, okay, like, actually, they're really just thinking that they're going to build the nodes. And then, like, people will build on top of the stack. And I just knew, you know, like, I know how to build Single-Page apps. This is what you need. I knew this is what they will need to make sure, to show what a DApp can be and show how to, I just felt it. And so I said, like, Aaron, just can, I mean, I showed him this as well and just ask around internally. And they had one Skype group that was kind of like the Discord group at the time, yeah. And funny enough, Alex van der Sande is the one who, like, came on on board as the UX designer also just a month before me. And he had this whole idea of, like, creating this Mist browser concept. And I think when Alex heard about that there's this guy, you know, that came up here that can build, you know, single-page apps, blah, blah, blah. Then Alex thought, oh, that could be the person who can help with building the Mist browser. So you convinced Jeff, I mean, that's my assumption, what happened. And he tried to call me up. And I was in Turkey on holidays, so I didn't pick up the phone. And then when I came back, I saw someone who called me up. And somehow, I think I called him back or whatever. And, yeah, he said, hey, you want to work here? We want to, like, want to do this and this and la, la, la, la, la. And this was Aaron that you were talking to again? No, this was Alex. Yeah. So I was talking to Alex. So Alex wanted to have me because he, I think he probably convinced Jeff because he saw this as a guy who can help build his idea, right? And Jeffrey was kind of skeptical of hiring anyone. This is not a code developer. What the fuck can you do, I guess? That's what he thought.

**[14:54] SPEAKER_UNKNOWN:** Probably.

**[14:55] SPEAKER_02:** What? JavaScript?

**[14:57] SPEAKER_00:** Cannot work. So, I mean, you started in, I think it was January 2015. So I guess this discussion would have been in, like, December 2014-ish.

**[15:07] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, it was December, exactly. Yeah, yeah. It was mid of December. I was on holidays. He tried to call me. And he said, hey, can you start? And I asked, you know, when to start. And he said, yeah, start in January. And Jeffrey obviously really wanted to prove me. So he thought, okay, let me just throw a really complicated task at him. And then we fail anyway, and we can get over with this whole thing. I think that's what Jeffrey thought. So he said, okay, build a chat app for the Whisper protocol. So in Ethereum, there was the Web3, right? The idea of Web3 was the network, storage, the Swarm, storage, and communication, the Whisper. Which, by the way, I only figured out later that Web3 means exactly these three things. Fun fact. I always thought, it's like, sure, Web2, we go to Web3.

**[15:54] SPEAKER_00:** But that was, yeah, actually, the three. Probably both, right? It's kind of a bit of a joke that you've got both. And I was just looking. So it was November that Alex had done his, you know, Mist concept presentation. So I guess that was really quite fresh. It's like, okay, here's the little door.

**[16:14] SPEAKER_02:** So he had the idea. And then they were working on it already, early December. And I forgot his name. But the guy who, the French guy who then worked on Remix. I'm sorry, I forgot his name. Oh, Jan Levero. Exactly. So Jan actually built, he built an early version of the Mist browser. But in, I think, in C or something like this.

**[16:40] SPEAKER_01:** And what's that?

**[16:40] SPEAKER_02:** Mist browser. I think there was one called Aft browser. Maybe. It was really early, early kind of Mist. It was barely working. And obviously, the whole of the connection stuff was not figured out properly yet. And they just really realized quickly that this is not the way to go. And that's why maybe Alex saw an opportunity here with this JavaScript dude showing up with the single page app. Aft book or whatever.

**[17:02] SPEAKER_00:** Because I mean, you'd had Alice Zero as well, right? I guess that was the very first theory thing. Maybe that's what you were thinking of with Jan? Maybe Alice Zero was the, was. And that was like a really, like, really ugly programmer tool, kind of like a console. Yeah, I think Alice Zero was that early Mist browser. Exactly.

**[17:27] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, anyway. So, so Jeffrey said, hey, let the guy build. You know, like a chat app in the Whisper protocol. So I got dropped into this, you know, novel tech. No documentation. No idea how this shit works. And I was supposed to build a whole chat app using this protocol. And that was kind of crazy. But because I really knew how to build, you know, single page apps that, like, are reactive. And I could work with Jan, actually, on, you know, he gave me just the endpoints that I need to use to get the account and to do the sending the messages and stuff like this. So I pulled it off and build, like, build, like, a chat app. So in a channel, you could basically say, I want to talk about a certain topic. And then you could filter by the topic. So you could see all messages. Or you could say, I want to only see this or that topic. And it's the same, like, threads in Discord, by the way. Right. So I basically made the thread concept of Discord in this tiny app. Right. And it worked. And you were connected with your wallet, you know, that was in your node, in your geth stored. And I think, you know, Jeffrey was quite impressed. And that kind of gave him some confidence that I can do it, even though he was trying to, you know, prove me wrong or prove himself, right, that it's not going to work. And what's crazy is we literally built the Mist Browser in, like, three months. We built the first working version. And we released it with the mainnet. We released the Ethereum wallet. That was July 31st, 2015. So basically six months later, seven months later, we released the first Mist Browser version. And it was so crazy because everything needed to be figured out. I needed to learn all how this stuff works. And initially, in the first two months, it felt literally impossible. And I felt like there's no way I'm going to figure this shit out. Like, there's no way. There was no documentation. It was completely over my head in terms of complexity and shit that I didn't understand at all. But I pulled it off. And I had to, like, obviously, there were people around me that I could talk to. But everybody was also so busy and had to, like, figure out their own thing, you know, because everything had to be figured out at the time. But I had to literally touch every point. I had to, you know, work with the RPC API. And then I saw this thing was kind of messy. You know, sometimes it was returning hacks. Sometimes it was not returning. So I had to basically, I thought, I'm a Virgo. So I immediately tried to fix things and make them proper. So I basically immediately, you know, wanted to make sure this is proper. Because when we launch the nodes, this stuff can't change anymore. Because now, once we start mainnet, you know, you don't want to constantly, like, make stuff unworkable. So I had to fight with Gavin to fix and change the endpoints. And that was quite already, like, a little bit of an uphill battle, let's say. Then I had to get into Web3.js, which Marek was working on. Which was the JavaScript library that, you know, I think Gavin and Jeffrey started. And then I had to help with him or work together with him initially. And then I really contributed to Web3.js because we had to build that into the Mist browser directly. So I was literally the first user of that library and really contributed to that library as well. Right. So we had to make everything up. The whole foundational stack of Ethereum we made up in this, like, first few months. And, you know, because I built the piece that put it all together, like the node, the DApps, the Web3.js, the RPC input, everything into one app. I had to literally touch everything. And I had to go to talk to everybody. That was quite challenging. Not going to lie. And I also realized that Jeffrey's team and Gavin's team was a little disconnected. And they tried to, like, there was a little, like, battle and war going on where everybody wanted to be the one who determines which feature and how. And I just realized, guys, if we are doing like this, that shit is going nowhere, you know, if we don't work together. And it would be too complicated, too much iterations. So I tried to make the team talk, these two teams. But Jeffrey's team, you know, I was part of Jeffrey's team. We were a little bit more open, at least how it felt to me. Gavin really wanted to kind of keep everybody under a bucket. And he didn't want that we talked to this team. But I kind of found back channels and back doors to make them sync up. I guess Gavin didn't like that. But it was really needed so that eventually they were starting to work more together and had to do a lot of, you know, connecting, hand-holding. Because I was in this crazy position of being hired by the Amsterdam team while sitting in the office of Gavin of the Berlin C++ team. So I wasn't at the same time as the only person. So I was the connector, you know. I was the translator and the connector, basically. And I had to deal with all the pieces. So I had to deal with, you know, the C++ client had to work as a client in the Mist browser as the Go client. So I had to talk to people when something was not working. And it's crazy how much happened in the first six months before the network started. I mean, equally on the network side, right? Like, there was so much just being built and done at the time. But the whole DApp tech stack was literally made up in this moment, in this time.

**[23:33] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. I mean, I was just looking at the timeline. So September the 16th, 2015 is when the first developer preview of Mist went live. Yeah. I mean, saying about with the two teams, I mean, I guess you were sort of in the position of being the very first person, like, building one layer up. You know, I guess all of the prior efforts were just about the clients and, you know, and making features available on the clients, but not really building things on top and specifically not building things on top to try and be able to work with either. So those interface issues and...

**[24:18] SPEAKER_02:** I mean, to be fair, the first DApps probably were built by Gavin and Jeffrey, but they used all the clunky half as stuff. They're only on their own stack, right? And then only on their own stack, yes, I built the first number one DApp browser, like literally generic tool that can run any JavaScript app to connect to the blockchain. And I built it with Alex the Ethereum wallet, which was the first ever DApp on Ethereum, like proper done, designed, cross-client functional thing. Yeah. That's exactly what we did, yeah.

**[24:58] SPEAKER_00:** But, yeah, I mean, all of that prior stuff, it was just really on their own stack. A little JavaScript page talking to their own endpoints, yes. Right. I mean, and looking through old videos, there was one, which I think was a talk in London, where both Jeff and Gav were sort of talking about the state of Ethereum and demonstrating some things. So this was October 2014. And one of the demos that they had was one of probably the first on-chain DEX. So they were, you'd got GavCoin and JeffCoin, you know, this is prior to any standards, I guess. And GavCoin was written in LLL and JeffCoin was written in Mutan. But they did do, you know, an on-chain DEX order book thing, you know, so putting a transaction for, like, an offer, like, CPU mining, picking that up. So, you know, you have got that interop. And I guess maybe some of the Whisper stuff was maybe kind of cross-client, but you have really got the UI layer.

**[26:19] SPEAKER_02:** So for the chat app, I mainly used the go-client because the Whisper thing on the C++ client was not fully integrated or working. The initial idea was that the Ethereum client will host all three things, Swarm, Whisper, and the network. Obviously, the Swarm never really worked in there, and neither Whisper, which then later got overtaken and supported by Status, and now it's transferred into a whole different protocol. Yeah, it's interesting. I mean, this was really, like, foundational times. And I think what people really, like, often misunderstand is how much, number one, Ethereum was generic from day one. Number two, how many ideas were already present earlier. If you watch the Mist browser video from Alex, like, we haven't even built half of this stuff that's in that video. And, in fact, a lot of these foundations are missing. And, for example, now I'm working on universal profiles across a smart content account system. And that's even in the video already in there. Like, you don't see wallets. You see profiles. You see people doing stuff. And only now, literally 10 plus years later, we now have the foundation, and it's not even widely used yet, that even makes that Mist video more realistic. And it's not that Alex came up with all of these ideas. This is just what was around at the time. Even, like, right after Bitcoin got attention in 2013 and 2014, these ideas were already around. Like, how can you build decentralized Uber and decentralized this and decentralized that and DApps and whatever. And it's just people think this stuff came all in 2017 and 2020, you know? Like, and this is somehow, like, an invention of, like, the Ethereum Foundation making shit up, you know? Like, this stuff is all, like, it has been around for ages.

**[28:27] SPEAKER_01:** Absolutely.

**[28:28] SPEAKER_02:** We are just behind when it comes to this stuff, actually.

**[28:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean, you know, you had that sort of cryptocurrency 2.0 phase at the start there, you know, talking about Mastercoin and things, you know? I guess there was a thought that, you know, everything will get built on Bitcoin, you know? That was the initial thing. And, yes, you've got these altcoins and experiments and other things. And, you know, it might kind of come back together. Or even, you know, prior to Bitcoin, you know, because Bitcoin itself was just sort of a manifestation of digital cash streams that had gone back for decades with the cypherpunks. And then you've got things like BitTorrent. You know, you did have decentralized messaging things.

**[29:18] SPEAKER_02:** And so on, yes. I mean, I was, yeah, it's basically, it's interesting. Back in the day, it was all Reddit, right? Bitcoin, like, all, like, today's crypto Twitter. Back in the day, it was Bitcoin Reddit. Or Reddit are Bitcoin. And Ethereum was the first kind of real challenger to the status quo. And it split the community into the Bitcoin maximalist, the camp that says, no, we only need Bitcoin. Why the heck? You want any other chain? And then the people, and even if my friends circles, you know, and friends developers, some literally never made the move. They never looked into Ethereum stack just because they felt that, what do you care? Bitcoin's all you need. And I just visited a Bitcoin meetup recently, and I was so taken back because it was like walking into like, you know, some kind of like a time portal back into the time. And then 10 years back, same discussions, same problems, same people, same size of groups. And you're suddenly back in some kind of time capsule of the past where the topics that talk about is just like, you know, minor this, minor that, and basic stuff that has been figured out like 100 times already on Ethereum. Like being full and present discussions here and very few developers, which is also very impressive, like how such a network that has so much attention, so much money in it, literally just is developed by 100 people and maybe not even.

**[31:01] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I mean, speaking for myself, you know, I was aware of Bitcoin for a good number of years before I had sort of any involvement in the crypto space. But there were sort of two reasons, I guess I wasn't interested, or maybe three, which was firstly, I was a gold bug, and I was a software engineer, and I know how terrible most software is. So like some dude you've never heard of has made like magic internet money, like, come on. But I think more importantly, it was just kind of boring to me because, okay, you can do payments. Okay, well, there you go. Well, that's not very interesting versus here's a platform and you can build apps. That was like, oh, that's kind of interesting. And, you know, maybe you had a fairly similar.

**[31:47] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. I mean, for me, the money part was, I mean, obviously, it's cool, like, to invest in something that, like, you know, feel is going up and you make some money. And obviously, I had no money as a student here. My parents are not rich or anything. But it's just like, it was just so powerful, the idea that there is a technology that you can, no one can control, that sits above the law, that sits above the influence of humans, because you can't break a system that's based on consensus. And, like, a Hydra has 100,000 heads. And it's just, oh, it's just really, it was fascinating. No, I was really, you know, I mean, I still am, you know, here I am building still on this stack, super pumped about the next phase of this whole technology. But I just never thought it would take that long, to be honest.

**[32:49] SPEAKER_00:** No, no. So, I mean, you were working from the Berlin office, but presumably you, you know, you were back and forth to Amsterdam sometimes. Ah, rarely.

**[32:59] SPEAKER_02:** I mean, the Amsterdam office, well, we were there maybe, like, twice or so. Like, on the end, the Amsterdam office was really more like a legal hub. And there was obviously Jeffrey and the operations personal assistant that he had. And, like, we were all over the place. So, I worked with Alex mainly, who was literally three, two, or five hours ahead, behind in Brazil, in Rio. Later, we hired multiple people. We hired another person from Rio. Actually, we hired two other person from Rio. At some point, we were three people in the team, four people in the team, even, if I remember, at the peak. But then I also worked on Web3.js. So, I worked with Marek closely, was in the Berlin office. I talked and worked with Christian a lot, who worked on Solidity, was also in the Berlin office. And, obviously, Jan and the other girl that worked on the Remix. Lef Harvey was sitting across me in the Berlin office. Christoph Jentsch came to the Berlin office frequently. So, he was a guy, right? But he was more, like, hired as a kind of contractor to do testing scenarios for the nodes. So, he wrote all these kind of tests to test all kind of inputs and outputs of whatever node behavior. I don't remember exactly. Cross-client, make sure this all, like, functions correctly. And, at the same time, the Ethereum hub, I call it the Ethereum hub. It was never meant to be a hub. But it functioned as the main go-to place. If you want to visit Ethereum, the Berlin office was the place. There was the most people there. And it just really also happened that just people showed up. So, Dominic Williams just showed up before he made IDEX. You know, people that I met that, like, really became friends. Gustav, who built a key manager implementation in Go-Ethereum. Felix, the guy who built still today the network layer. He was also in the office in Berlin. Literally lived across. Right, yeah. And there's a lot of – it was, like, a hub. And I was one of the more social developers inside the group. So, when somebody walked into the office, it was mostly kind of me talking to that person. Because the others just, like, behaved like they didn't know what to do. Like, they just literally, like, didn't – and there was no secretary person or anything, really. So, I just talked to most of the people. And I also – what I was working on, you know, working on the front end, working on the developer stack. I was kind of, like, a little bit, like, you know, on the layer to the outside compared to the people working on the protocols in the inside. So, that also kind of reflected socially.

**[36:01] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right. So, you missed out on DEVCON 0 because you started just after that. But you will have been to London for DEVCON 1 in November of 2015 then. Yeah, I was, yeah. And token standards were just kind of beginning. The EIP process was just starting. So, I mean, I guess that's sort of like phase two, right? Is your first one is, you know, building a thing and touching everything. And then you're starting to get up to that, you know, on-chain token layer. So, how did all that kind of grew up?

**[36:47] SPEAKER_02:** So, I mean, the whole standardization for me started when Vitalik created the GitHub wiki page because he wanted to standardize tokens, ENS kind of registry, and maybe an early version of a DEX, I don't remember. And he just, like, we had some discussion around a GitHub page, literally, a GitHub docs page. And he made the early version of ERC20, and we debated a little bit on there, on mainly, like, you know, Skype and some comments on this page. And then, yes, and then London happened. And so, what happened is it's actually funny because there was this, there was a panel. It's a panel about standardization. So, I presented a lot of things there. I presented the Mist browser. Yeah, I think I presented the Mist browser. Maybe something else. But I was also on this panel about standardization. And fun fact, we discussed, I watched it the other day, and we discussed, you know, standards. And there was two main discussions. Oh, should we put metadata into the contract directly? In this case, the idea was, do we