**[00:02] SPEAKER_00:** So hello and welcome to Early Days of Ethereum. I am delighted today to be joined by Fabian Vogelsteller. Is that the correct pronunciation?

**[00:15] SPEAKER_01:** Like an F? The V is more like an F. But yes.

**[00:19] SPEAKER_00:** Right, very Germanic pronunciation. That's not going to come out of my mouth. So yeah, you know, great, great to see you. We saw each other at DevConnect in November I think for the first time for quite a while and had a good catch up there. But hello.

**[00:44] SPEAKER_01:** So hey, yeah.

**[00:47] SPEAKER_00:** What were you doing prior to wandering into the blockchain world?

**[00:59] SPEAKER_01:** So okay, let's start from the beginning. What I was doing before blockchain, I was actually a web developer. So I started out as, I mean I built websites since I was 14. My Findura, the name that I have on Twitter is actually the name of the content management system that I built I think in 2005. And it just happened to be turning into my second identity. So I have two identities on the Internet. Frozen Man and Findura. It's all just connected to two things on GitHub. I'm Frozen and that's also my GitHub history with Ethereum and so on. And Findura is then my online one.

Yeah, I basically was always interested in the cutting edge of the cool Internet stuff in the 90s, building my first websites in the late 90s, following the whole evolution of the Internet with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and so on. So mainly did web development but I studied media design so I didn't study anything with coding. All the coding is autodidactically learned. Even when I joined Ethereum I had no clue about bytes and how to manipulate bytes and stuff. Still don't have, actually I still don't know.

**[02:37] SPEAKER_00:** Didn't have your computer science background. I don't have any computer science background.

**[02:42] SPEAKER_01:** Not sure what I'm doing on the computer. I just know how to interact with high level languages and now I only know how to speak to AI and to my team.

**[02:52] SPEAKER_00:** That's all you need. Things changed and you wrote a book.

**[03:01] SPEAKER_01:** I wrote a book about Meteor.js. So I got really into web development. I did a lot of websites and built a lot of things. I built my own content management system in PHP and I built a flat file based content management system. So that means that this doesn't need a database. The whole idea was, okay, I just want to have one of these FTP PHP ready servers and if I want to move my site, I can just copy the whole folder structure over to the other server and it works. And it did. So that was what Findura.org CMS does and did. I mean obviously who uses PHP today but Facebook does? No, but yeah, now I have a bunch of haters in the PHP community, but yeah, I built that thing and that was really helping me to do a full project front to end. And then I got more into JavaScript and I got really excited by Meteor.js, which was one of the first reactive JavaScript frameworks that was before Angular, before React and it was the first time where you just could write JavaScript code and HTML stuff and when you update stuff in the JavaScript or in your local state, the HTML got rerendered natively. Super magic. So I got really into this and I wrote a book about it. I have it here. If you ever want to. I would never read a tutorial book to be honest. But I wrote one.

**[05:04] SPEAKER_00:** People even read books anymore.

**[05:06] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean honestly I would never even. It was so much work to do this. And the reason why I did is because they reached out to me and I thought yeah, I could do that. And then Marjorie, my ex wife back in the day, encouraged me and I thought okay, why not? And in the end it was a lot of work. I mean literally like four months of waking up and I had a kid, two year old kid at the time and I had to wake up very early at five to write one or two pages or five pages, whatever and then go to work. It was intense. You get an hourly rate of like 10 cents. So it made totally no money. I literally probably made like exactly 10 cents per hour or something like this.

**[06:01] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[06:02] SPEAKER_01:** But it's reputation and in a way I think that also what got me into Ethereum because what is this writing single page apps with Meteor. And what is a dapp? It's a single page app. The whole point literally runs in your browser, doesn't require a backend. And I built actually a tool that allowed you to strip out the server part of the Meteor app so you can handle it as a local app. It's actually quite a popular repository called Meteor Build Client. And yeah, that's what I use for dapps in the early days in Ethereum too.

**[06:46] SPEAKER_00:** Is Meteor still an active project? Is anyone using Meteor still?

**[06:52] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, no, I totally think so. I think so, yeah. I mean, I don't know how frequent they are. Yeah, I haven't checked it out in a long time. No.

**[07:10] SPEAKER_00:** But I mean, it was quite a revolution at the time. The single page app.

**[07:15] SPEAKER_01:** It was the first, you know, it was literally like, it was one of the first. It was the first framework that I know that really was a proper framework and it just solved the whole thing from account creation to reactive DOM updates to server client synchronization. It was magic. Yeah, it blew a lot of people away. And then all the other React and so on were kind of more like answers to this. And then React brought it back to the weird way of mixing code and UI in the same files, which I already found very bad in PHP times.

**[07:52] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[07:53] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah.

**[07:56] SPEAKER_00:** And then I guess you maybe sort of found your way into bitcoin world in some form.

**[08:02] SPEAKER_01:** So, yeah, 2013, I heard about Canadian wants to sell house in Bitcoin. And I thought, okay, wow, what's that? Like somebody's selling a house in a currency I've never heard of. And that really led me very quickly down the rabbit hole of this was 2013, March. That was literally when Bitcoin hit 200 in that very same month. And number one, I saw, okay, there's money to be made here. And I was a student with no money. So trying to have some hope, okay, maybe I can make a little bit of money on the side this way. But I really quickly understood the fundamental power of this technology. And it took me about a year to really understand how it works fully. I mean, I literally had this epiphany every month that I thought now I know how it works. Ah, it took me a year to really construe my brain, you know, no servers and frameworks, you know, and how this basic stuff works. And then the crypto blockchain stuff was just so out there in a way how this stuff works. But yeah, so I was in the space and then in 2013, obviously, right after I joined the bitcoin community, then there was the first altcoin Litecoin. And then in 2013 there was a lot of projects that were created trying to imitate bitcoin or do an improvement or do alternate versions. I also got really into Mastercoin, the idea of just writing onto the bitcoin blockchain rather than creating a separate blockchain.

**[09:49] SPEAKER_00:** Right. And you're in Berlin. Right. Were you going to meetups or like, did you find fellow enthusiasts?

**[09:56] SPEAKER_01:** It was just online. There were no meetups at the time, really. Like not in my region. So what actually happened in 2013? There were then some meetups and so I heard about Ethereum. I really knew that. I just felt immediately that this is a really powerful approach, but it also sounded so unrealistic. So when I heard this, I mean, I looked at the white paper. I never really read the Ethereum white paper actually ever fully. I just literally just skipped over it and I listened to Vitalik and the early things that were floating around and I knew this is it. The idea of making this computation machine on the blockchain makes total sense. I just thought it's so hard to do. And I didn't really give it a lot of chances of them pulling this off, but then they pulled it off pretty quickly and it just happened so that I was at a meetup in Berlin, a bitcoin meetup, I think the first one I was ever at. They wanted to open a bitcoin center, Berlin. Coworking space, basically.

**[11:04] SPEAKER_00:** Can you imagine what kind of meetups might have been?

**[11:06] SPEAKER_01:** That was in I think it was August 2014. It was literally like a week before the Ethereum presale started.

**[11:18] SPEAKER_00:** Right, right.

**[11:19] SPEAKER_01:** Literally days before. So I met these guys from Ethereum. In this case was Aaron, who did the accounting at the time.

**[11:28] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah.

**[11:29] SPEAKER_01:** And they told me that they are going to open an office in Berlin and that there's some kind of news coming out next week, but he can't tell me. And I was already following Ethereum. I wasn't already waiting for the ICO. And yeah, then it happened. So I took all my bitcoin that I had at the time, which was 12 bitcoins, converted them into Ether. I mean, people think oh my God, 12 bitcoins but they were like 600 worth or whatever. It was literally not much. I put them all into Ether or pretty much everything. And I knew this is going to be big. I felt it. And this was also the first time a project where I thought I would love to work for this project because it's not about finance, money and wallets because every bitcoin startup at the time was just about creating a wallet and I was really interested in creating wallets. And so it just happened that six months later, bitcoin happened, ICO happened, attention came and I just got an email from a recruiter saying the company Ethereum is looking for a C++ developer and I was not a C++ developer. Recruiters don't check anything on LinkedIn, I guess or GitHub. But I knew that they're now looking. So I went to their office and I just chatted with Aaron again and I saw that this office here, Waldemar Strasse and I realized that okay, actually they really just thinking that they're going to build the nodes and then people will build on top of the stack. And I just knew, like I know how to build single apps. This is what you need. I knew this is what they will need to make sure to show what a dapp can be and show how to. I just felt it and so I said like Aaron just can. I mean I showed him this as well and just ask around internally. And they had one Skype group that was kind of like the Discord group at the time. Yeah, and funny enough, Alex van de Sande is the one who came on board as the UX designer also just a month before me. And he had this whole idea of creating this Mist browser concept and I think when Alex heard about that there's this guy that came up here that can build single page apps, then Alex thought oh, that could be the person who can help with building the Mist browser. So he convinced Jeff, I mean that's my assumption what happened? And he tried to call me up and I was in Turkey on holiday. So I didn't pick up the phone. And then when I came back I saw someone, he called me up and somehow I think I called him back or whatever and yeah, I said hey, you want to work here? We want to do this and this and this was Alex.

**[14:28] SPEAKER_00:** That you were talking to again?

**[14:30] SPEAKER_01:** No, this was Alex. Yeah, so I was talking to Alex. So Alex wanted to have me because he probably convinced Jeff because he saw this as a guy who can help build his idea. Right. And Jeffrey was kind of skeptical of hiring anyone. There's not a C++ developer. What can you do, I guess is what he thought probably watch JavaScript cannot work.

**[14:58] SPEAKER_00:** So I mean you started in January 2015. So I guess this discussion would have been in like December 2014.

**[15:08] SPEAKER_01:** Exactly. Yeah, yeah, it was mid of December, I was on holidays. He tried to call me and yeah, he said hey, can you start and ask you know when to start? He said yeah, start in January. And Jeffrey obviously really wanted to prove me, so he thought okay, let me just throw a really complicated task at him and then we'll fail anyway and we can get over with this whole thing. I think that's what Jeffrey thought. So he said okay. Build a chat app for the Whisper protocol. So in Ethereum there was Web3, right. The idea of Web3 was the network storage, the swarm storage and communication, the Whisper. Which by the way I only figured out later that Web3 means exactly these three things. Fun fact, I always thought it's like, sure, Web 2, we go to Web 3. But that was actually the three, probably both.

**[15:56] SPEAKER_00:** Right. It's kind of a bit of a joke that you've got both. And I was just looking. So it was November that Alex had done his Mist concept presentation. So I guess that was really quite fresh. It's like, okay.

**[16:15] SPEAKER_01:** So he had the idea and then they were working on it already early December and I forgot his name. But the guy who then worked on Remix. I'm sorry, I forgot.

**[16:28] SPEAKER_00:** Yann Le Roux.

**[16:30] SPEAKER_01:** Exactly. So Yann actually built an early version of the Mist browser, but in I think C++ or something like this and browser, I think there was one called fbrowser.

**[16:42] SPEAKER_00:** There was one called fbrowser.

**[16:43] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe it was really early kind of Mist. It was barely working and obviously the whole idea connection stuff was not figured out properly yet. And they just really realized quickly that this is not the way to go. And that's why maybe Alex saw an opportunity here with this JavaScript dude showing up with the single page app book or whatever.

**[17:04] SPEAKER_00:** You'd had Aleth Zero as well, right? I guess that was the very first GUI thing. Maybe that's what you were thinking of with Yann.

**[17:13] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe Aleth Zero was the early Mist browser. Exactly. Yeah, yeah. Anyway, so Jeffrey said hey, let the guy build a chat app in the Whisper protocol. I got dropped into this novel tech, no documentation, no idea how the shit works, and I was supposed to build a whole chat app using this protocol and that was crazy. But because I really knew how to build single page apps that are reactive and I could work with Yann actually on, you know, he gave me just the endpoints that I need to use to get the account and to do the sending the messages and stuff like this, I pulled it off and built a chat app. And the first time we met in March or April, all together in Amsterdam, we all used the Whisper chat app to talk to each other. Encrypted chat messaging, including groups, including I added topics. So in a channel you could basically say, I want to talk about a certain topic. And then you could filter by the topic so you could see all messages or you could say, I want to only see this or that topic. And it's the same like threads in Discord, by the way. So I basically made the thread concept of Discord in this tiny app and it worked. And you were connected with your wallet, you know, that was in your node, in your guest stored. And I think Jeffrey was quite impressed and that kind of gave him some confidence that I can do it. Even though he was trying to prove me wrong or prove himself right. That's not going to work. And what's crazy is we literally built the Mist browser in like three months. We built the first working version and we released it with the mainnet. We released the Ethereum wallet that was July 31, 2015. So basically, six months later, seven months later, we released the first Mist browser version. And it was so crazy because everything needed to be figured out. I needed to learn all how this stuff works. And initially, in the first two months, it felt literally impossible. And I felt like, there's no way I'm going to figure this shit out. There was no documentation. It was completely over my head in terms of complexity and stuff that I didn't understand at all. But I pulled it off and I had to obviously there were people around me that I could talk to, but everybody was also so busy and had to figure out their own thing, you know, because everything had to be figured out at the time, but I had to literally touch every point. I had to work with the RPC API. And then I saw this thing was kind of messy. Sometimes it was returning hex sometimes it was not returning. So I had to basically I thought I'm a Virgo. So I immediately tried to fix things and make them proper. So I basically immediately wanted to make sure this is proper because when we launch nodes, this stuff can't change anymore because now once we start Mainnet, you know, you don't want to constantly make devs stuff unworkable. So I had to fight with Gavin to fix and change the endpoints. And that was quite already like a little bit of an uphill battle, let's say. Then I had to get into Web3.js, which Marek was working on with Russells' JavaScript library that I think Gavin and Jeffrey started and then had to help with him or work together with him initially. And then I really contributed to Web3.js because we had to build that into the Mist browser directly. So I was literally the first user of that library and really contributed to that library as well.

**[21:16] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[21:16] SPEAKER_01:** We had to make everything up. The whole foundational stack of Ethereum we made up in this first few months. And because I built the piece that put it all together, like the node, the dapps, the Web3.js, the RPC endpoint, everything into one app, I had to literally touch everything and I had to go to talk to everybody. That was quite challenging, not going to lie. And I also realized that Jeffrey's team and Gavin's team was a little disconnected and they tried to like there was still little battle and war going on where everybody wanted to be the one who determines which feature and how. And I just realized, guys, if we are doing like this, that shit's going nowhere. If you don't work together and it would be too complicated, too much iterations. So I tried to make the team talk, these two teams. But Jeffrey's team, you know, I was part of Jeffrey's team. We were a little bit more open, at least how I felt. Gavin really wanted to kind of keep everybody under a bucket and he didn't want that we talked to his team. But I kind of found back ways and back channels to make them sync up. I guess Gavin didn't like that, but it was really needed so that eventually they were more starting to work more together and had to do a lot of connecting handholding because I was in this crazy position of being hired by Amsterdam while sitting in the office of Gavin's Berlin C++ team. So I was in at the same time as the only person. So I was the connector, I was the translator and the connector basically. And I had to deal with all the pieces. So I had to deal with the C++ client, had to work as a client in the Mist browser, as the Go client. So I had to talk to people when something was not working. And this is crazy how much happened in this first six months before the network start. I mean equally on the network side. Like there was so much just being built and done at the time, but the whole dapp tech stack was literally made up in this moment, in this time.

**[23:33] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean I was just looking at the timeline. So September 16th, 2015 is when the first developer preview of Mist went live. I mean saying about with the two teams, I mean I guess you were sort of in the position of being the very first person like building one layer up, you know, I guess all of the prior efforts were just about the clients and making features available on the clients but not really building things on top of. And specifically not building things on top to try and be able to work with either. So those interface issues and I mean.

**[24:18] SPEAKER_01:** To be fair, the first dapps probably were built by Gavin and Jeffrey but they used all the clunky half-assed stuff.

**[24:30] SPEAKER_00:** They're only on their own stack. Right.

**[24:32] SPEAKER_01:** And then only on their own stack. Yes. I built the first number one dapp browser, like literally generic tool that can run any JavaScript app to connect to the blockchain. And I built it with Alex Ethereum Wallet which was the first ever dapp on Ethereum. Like the proper done designed, cross client functional thing. Yeah, that's exactly what we did.

**[24:57] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, but yeah, I mean all of that prior stuff, it was just really on their own stack.

**[25:05] SPEAKER_01:** A little JavaScript page, talking to their own endpoints.

**[25:08] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, right. I mean and looking through old videos. There was one which I think was a talk in London where both Jeff and Gav were sort of talking about the state of Ethereum and demonstrating some things. So this was October 2014 and one of the demos that they had was one of probably the first on-chain dexes. So they had GavCoin and JeffCoin, you know, this is prior to any standards I guess and GavCoin was written in LLL and JeffCoin was written in Mutan. But they did do an on-chain dex order book thing and so putting a transaction for an offer like CPU mining, picking that up, you had got that interop and I guess maybe some of the Whisper stuff was maybe kind of cross client, but the UI layer.

**[26:19] SPEAKER_01:** So for the chat app I mainly used the Go client because the Whisper thing on the C++ was not fully integrated or working. The initial idea was that the Ethereum client will host all three things. Swarm, Whisper and the network. Yeah, obviously that Swarm never really worked in there and neither Whisper, which then later what got overtaken and supported by Status and now it's transferred into a whole different protocol. Yeah, it's interesting. I mean this was really like foundational times and I think what people really often misunderstand is how much Ethereum was generic from day one. How many ideas were already present. If you watch the Mist Browser video from Alex, like we haven't even built half of this stuff that's in that video and in fact a lot of these foundations are missing. And for example now I'm working on universal profiles across smart contract system and that's even in the video already in there. Like you don't see wallets, you see profiles, you see people doing stuff. And only now, literally 10 plus years later, we now have the foundation and it's not even widely used yet. That even makes that Mist Video more realistic. And yeah, Alex came up with all of these ideas. This is just what was around at the time. Even like right after Bitcoin became got attention in 2013 and 2014, these ideas were already around like how can you build decentralized Uber and decentralized this and decentralized that and DEX and whatever. And it's just people think this stuff was invented 2017, 2020 and this is somehow like an invention of the Ethereum foundation making shit up. This stuff is all like, it has been around for ages when it comes to this stuff actually.

**[28:33] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean you had that sort of cryptocurrency 2.0 phase at the start there, you know, talking about Mastercoin and things, you know, that I guess there was a thought that everything will get built on Bitcoin. You know, that was the initial thing. And yes, you've got these altcoins and experiments and other things and you come back together or even prior to Bitcoin, because Bitcoin itself was just sort of a manifestation of digital cash streams that had gone back for decades with the cypherpunks. And then you had things like BitTorrent. You know, you did have decentralized messaging things.

**[29:18] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, I mean I was yeah, it's basically interesting. Back in the day was all Reddit, right? Bitcoin, like all, today it's crypto Twitter, back in the day was Bitcoin Reddit. And Ethereum was their first kind of real challenger to the status quo. And it split the community into the bitcoin maximalists, the camp that says no, we only need bitcoin, why the heck you want any other chain? And then the people. And even my friends circled and friends developers, some literally never made the move. They never looked into Ethereum stack just because they felt that Bitcoin is all you need. And I just visited a bitcoin meetup recently and I was so taken back because it was like walking into some kind of time portal back into the time 10 years back, same discussions, same problems, same people, same size of groups and you're suddenly back in some kind of time capsule of the past where the topics they talk about is just minor this, minor that, and basic stuff that has been figured out like a hundred times already on Ethereum, like being full impressive discussions here and very few developers, which is also very impressive. How such a network that has so much attention, so much money in it, literally just developed by 100 people and maybe not even.

**[31:02] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I mean, speaking for myself, you know, I was aware of Bitcoin for a good number of years before I had any involvement in the crypto space. But there were sort of two reasons, I guess I wasn't interested, or maybe three, which was firstly, I was a gold bug and I was a software engineer and I know how terrible most software is. So like some dude you've never heard of has made magic Internet money. Like, come on. But I think more importantly, it was just kind of boring to me because okay, you can do payments. Okay, well, there you go. Well, that's not very interesting versus here's a platform and you can build apps. That was like, oh, that's kind of interesting. And you know, maybe you had a fairly similar.

**[31:46] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, for me the money part was obviously it's cool to invest in something that feels is going up and it makes money. And obviously I had no money as a student here. My parents are not rich or anything, but it's just so powerful. The idea that there is a technology that you can no one can control that sits above the law, that sits above the influence of humans because you can't break a system that's based on consensus. And like a Hydra has 100,000 heads. It's just fascinating. Yeah, I was really. I mean I'm still am, you know, here I am building still on this tank, super pumped about the next phase of this whole technology. But I just never thought it would take that long, to be honest.

**[32:49] SPEAKER_00:** No, no. So I mean you were working from the Berlin office, but presumably you were back and forth to Amsterdam sometimes, rarely.

**[32:58] SPEAKER_01:** I mean the Amsterdam office we were there maybe like twice or so like in the end. The Amsterdam office was really more like a legal hub and there was obviously Jeffrey and the operations personal assistant that he had and we were all over the place. So I worked with Alex mainly who was literally three to five hours ahead behind in Brazil. In Rio later we hired multiple people. We hired another person from Rio actually. Right. Two other people from Rio. At some point we were three