**[00:03] SPEAKER_03:** Hello, hello, hello, hello—great to see you, my friend. So we are here, we are here in Prague, in beautiful Prague, dark Prague—the inaugural Dark Prague Zero Congress, conference—I’m not quite sure what you’d call it. But yeah, delighted to talk to you today, really within a context of this early days of Ethereum project that I’ve been looking at. And one of the things I remember seeing earliest was the two EMEAs that you had—capitalist Amir and anarchist Amir—so tell me, you know, before all that started, even—how did you… just curious—yeah, how come you’re doing this project? How come I’m doing it? Yeah, yeah, what’s the… well, it was quite coincidental, you know. I’d gathered a bunch of information back in 2017–2018 basically because Ming Chan was getting hoofed out, and I asked Vitalik what I could do to help—anything with the transition or whatever. And he said, “Can you go and talk to people in the community and sort of see what they think the Ethereum Foundation should be like? What should we be doing?” Oh dear—if you ask that question, it’s already a bad sign. Well, my question at that point was: so Ming was terrible. She was one of the least professional people I’ve ever worked with. She was an absolute nightmare. And my thought was, well… what the hell was happening before that, that she looked like a good choice? And there was a real sort of shroud of mystery as to what had happened then, even though it was only like three or four years before. And so, there just was no canonical history. Nobody really knew what happened. Even something as basic as: was Charles like kind of a co-founder or not? He kind of says he was, maybe, but maybe he wasn’t. Which is just crazy because, you know, he was there, doing videos and, like, there’s just tons of evidence. But anyway, so I started digging back into that stuff. What about Anthony Di Iorio as well? Anthony Di Iorio, yes, that’s right. Didn’t he get rocked or something? There was Anthony Di Iorio. I don’t know the history. There was Anthony D’Onofrio—that was Texture. And there was another guy called Anthony Euphamio who did this Digix Gold thing. But anyway, that’s where I started getting interested in Ethereum history. It’s just like, well, what the hell happened? I mean, what ended up happening is everything I recommended to Vitalik never happened. It was just completely… a disaster. Ming went and he just got Aya. Here you go, it’s a new one. No changes. What people wanted was transparency. They wanted community input. They wanted professional, executive, operational—it’s like, let’s have organizations to help the devs, basically. But primarily, it was like: don’t be a Swiss opaque foundation with no accountability or any public information at all. Anyway, so I put the stuff aside at that point—it’s like, great, that was a good use of my time—advising the millionaire for free for months. But then just recently, the guys I now work with—they started recording some videos because Kieren James-Lubin is Joe’s son, so he was actually around from March 2014, and the others were sort of involved from 2015, and they were just like, “We should get some of these memories down,” right? It was like eight years ago at that point. So they did a couple of those videos and I really loved them and I was making tons of notes and finding links and photos and all of this. And then they interviewed me for the third one. But then more recently, I did interviews with Taylor Gehrung and with Texture and just tons of stuff came out of that, and then I just kind of shoved those together and there you go—that’s “Early Days of Ethereum”—this sort of combination of biographical stuff and photos and videos, links to articles, and then conversations with people. And it’s really just because… this is history, right?

**[05:13] SPEAKER_02:** This stuff was crazy—seeing being in crypto since, you know, almost the beginning and seeing the stuff that happens, but seeing what got recorded. Right. And it’s like, wow—like history really is just written by the victors. Yeah, it’s just crazy.

**[05:35] SPEAKER_03:** So the one thing on that score, which I don’t know if you know, is—so the original Bitcoin Talk post for announcing Ethereum, that was done on the 23rd of January 2014, right, just before the Bitcoin Miami. That page got changed. Oh, what the fuck? About eight months later, probably around August or September, it got quick-edited. And a whole load of people that were there got written out. Oh, you mean like just somebody? Well, I mean, I guess you can edit Bitcoin Talk pages. But what about the people getting deleted and stuff? So, yeah, just a whole bunch of people got deleted out. By who—the admins? Well, by Vitalik, I imagine. But how do you edit people out of your thread? No, no. The original post said, “Hey, we’re Ethereum, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. This is the team. This is what we’re doing.” I see, I see. So that post, which at the start went, “Look, here’s about the 30 people that are working on things,” went down to, “Oh, right—Charles and Amir.” Well, Amir I don’t think was in the original post because he didn’t want to be. But Charles got edited out. Stefan and Taylor Gehrung were edited in, and all the rest of the team got shoved off the page. Yeah. But you know, many, many people that were involved early—they’re just like forgotten. You know, if they were on the… if you go back to early Internet Archive versions, you can find some names. So I mean, some people are like Mr. Ryan Taylor over here. So Ryan worked on all the early websites for months. You know, these pages that thousands or tens of thousands of people have seen as, you know, this is the main Ethereum page. Nobody knew who did it. I didn’t know. Like, you know, just on one of the early ones, just for a little while, it just said, like, “Ryan Taylor Webb.” I don’t know who Ryan Taylor is. Like, so a number of these names—I don’t know who they are or maybe start to find them. And basically, you know, it’s like the work of many hands, right? This is something I was talking about—you’ve got, like, great man theory, right? The thought that you have these exceptional people and by amazing powers of intellectual skills and force of will, they bend the universe to their will. And, you know, that’s kind of the story that people like. It’s kind of feudalism. It’s like…

**[08:25] SPEAKER_02:** You pledge your allegiance to his liege. That’s right. And if your liege becomes popular, you will gain through him. You will live vicariously. Right. That’s how the tech world operates.

**[08:41] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, well, you know, like people are looking for heroes and champions to cheer. You know, in the highest case—something like North Korea—they literally think the leader is a god. You know, they’re just crying in front of him, just… Wow, that sounds amazing. So, yeah, I’m trying to record the real truth and give people their voices and just make sure stuff doesn’t get lost, right? So many things have already been lost.

**[09:11] SPEAKER_02:** Pete Rizzo did that for Bitcoin. Right. He did really, really deep history of Bitcoin stuff.

**[09:19] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, yeah. So… you should check him out as well. Yeah. So, yeah, I’m finding stuff. And, you know, you shared your old YouTube channel with me as well. You seem to have a reasonable number of artefacts of various ages that have been preserved about you. It’s funny because I was just filming and I was just putting my video camera on the internet on YouTube. So that’s why I have that page on YouTube. Right. It’s funny—there’s a guy called Freddie Hartline who was one of the guys that started the main kind of Bitcoin co-working space or whatever in Vancouver. But he was saying he’s got loads of stuff on his Facebook account of all things. Basically, even though it’s like as boomer as you can imagine, it’s like, “Yep, loads of other people have had things on so many other platforms and everything. They’ve all got lost and fucked. I’ve just posted shit on my Facebook page and it’s up there forever.” Obviously, like preserving things yourself is way better than relying on any of these platforms. But yeah, like so much stuff is just like rotted because people have deleted their accounts or like a platform isn’t around anymore or just, you know, general, general kind of rot. But…

**[10:50] SPEAKER_02:** Everything I have that survived is because I uploaded it to, like, a normie platform. Yes. Well, this is it. I, like, periodically have, like, a cleansing. It’s not accidental, but it’s just, like, every few years, you know, your data just resets to zero. Yeah. I don’t know. It sucks, but, you know.

**[11:12] SPEAKER_03:** Well, that’s it. Yeah. I mean, so yeah, that was Freddie’s super normie story—still using Facebook, even though, you know, it’s Facebook. So, yeah, I mean, you were a free software guy and a general developer on that thread and early Bitcoin dev. So how did you find Bitcoin?

**[11:45] SPEAKER_02:** So I was working on free software for five or six years and then off, and then I became a professional poker player. Right, right—I was for over two years. And the poker sites—you’re playing against other players, right—but the way the sites operate, the platform, they take a cut out of every pot, basically, every game that you play. Right. But the sites charge a huge amount of fees for a really crappy service. So I had this idea: what if you could have a P2P site, then it wouldn’t have rake and fees. Right. So I had the design for it, but then the main issue was the payment system. And so then I was on IRC in this channel with other anarcho-hackers, I know. And I was telling them about that. And this guy—he’s like a mathematician that worked for the W3C—his name’s Melvin. He dumped just like 10 links in there. And, you know, they’re like random open-source projects for money. And there’s stuff like LETS. Have you heard of LETS? No, no. That was, at one point, people were really into that. But it’s like offering your labor—you get like a token or something. But anyway, so I was going through all of these links and they were going, “No, no, no, no.” I saw Bitcoin. I opened the page for Bitcoin. It goes: “Bitcoin is a P2P currency that cannot be controlled by governments or central banks.” And I was like, “That’s garbage.” Because there’s like loads of random projects like that on SourceForge back in the day. I once saw like a Jurassic Park video game and it was going like, “You can do everything. You can punch through the walls, you can hack the terminals, you can hunt the dinosaurs.” And I was like, “Whoa, sounds amazing.” And I checked the code, and it said, like, “main.cpp.” And it had, like, just… one file. Yeah, like, it just got bored of it. It just wrote the idea. Right, right. And then, like, I kept checking months every so often. And there was like zero progress on that. So I thought Bitcoin was like one of those kind of projects. So I went, “No, no, no.” And then I was like, “Oh, they’re all shit.” So I was like, “Okay, let’s take a deeper look at all of them then.” And so when it came to Bitcoin, I downloaded the source code. And I started going through the source code. And I was like, “Oh, that’s really interesting.” First of all, Bitcoin source code is about 15,000 lines of code at that time. Which… you know, 15,000 lines of code—it’s actually a small amount of lines of code. Like, some programmers can even do that in like a week or something—very talented programmers. But so I was like, “Oh, but it’s not nothing either. It’s not like that Jurassic Park game I was just describing.” So it’s like 15,000 lines of code—you can read through and kind of understand that pretty well. Yeah, so I printed it all out and I covered it all over my floor. Right. You know, it’s like my pornography that I’m looking at. I started studying it. Yeah. And it started to make sense. I was like, “Oh, very interesting. Oh, interesting.” And so when I figured out how it worked, I was like, “Whoa, this is amazing. I’m going to work on this.” So what month do you think that was? That was the summer of 2010. Right. So that’s when I basically was like, “Okay, I’m just doing this from now on.” And so then I had… so then I made like a plan of, “Oh, in 10 years we’ll be here, et cetera.” Right, right. Because this is like a long-term thing I’m going to work on. But then that basically just happened really quickly. It just started growing massively. So it was pretty crazy. But I started working on Bitcoin. I started writing code. I was one of the first five Bitcoin developers, which I was listed on Bitcoin.org. But that page is gone from the internet. So people—it’s like they don’t know that. Maybe it got archived. No, I don’t think so. No, just gone. The very first Bitcoin webpage with the list of names. Right. So, like, I had a war with Gavin Andresen. Yep. Because he was, like, he’s a motherfucker, like, in many ways. But basically, he really likes regulations and the state and stuff like that. He’s a statist. And he’s led to the banks and stuff. But also, he was just not that good a dev. And when there was like other young devs that were coming up, instead of trying to nurture them, he was instead like trying to push them out and try and keep control. So I became like his main enemy, basically. I was like his first enemy. It seemed like he never wanted the role even. He just sort of got given it. Yeah, he kind of lucked into it. And then he was there and he was like, “Oh, I want to keep it. I really like it.” So, yeah, I went to the very first event presenting Bitcoin to an audience of bankers. And so I did my talk, and afterwards Gavin Andresen DM’d me and he goes, “I think you should not talk at conferences ever again.” I was like, “Who the fuck is this guy? You’re not in charge of the project. Fuck you.” But was this in London or in the US somewhere? Amsterdam. Right. But anyway, so one of the first things that Gavin Andresen did was to try and get my name off of that list. He got his name added. But anyway, so he was like that. And, you know…

**[17:37] SPEAKER_03:** I mean, did you end up starting Libbitcoin quite early then? Yeah, 2011—like March 2011 or something. And was that around the same time as BIPs? Was that kind of like you were coordinating that? It’s kind of like, right, we need specs, we need multiple clients. Yeah, because…

**[17:58] SPEAKER_02:** Gavin saw Bitcoin not as an open-source project, but as a startup. Right. So he’s like, “We need to pull ranks and we need to make these features and changes so we can make a payment system that’s fast. Make a roadmap.” Yeah, yeah. I don’t know. It was more like he wanted to operate it like a business. Right. And so I was very worried because he wasn’t treating it like an open-source protocol. It was like, “We need to add this thing, we need to add that thing.” So I was like, “There needs to be some constraint on his wild ideas.” So that’s why I proposed that system. And the thing is, like… Gavin, I don’t want to talk shit about people, but anyway. Yeah, so I made that BIP system for that reason. I was just afraid of that direction, that side of Bitcoin, which they later made a foundation. Yeah. And they put themselves as chief scientist and they tried to do this—it was a takeover by business guys on Bitcoin. And yeah, they wanted—they were like, “We have to push out the anarchists.” Yeah, it was just like this attitude of, “Oh, these crazy anarchists—they’ve invented this new play thing, and it’s just so… it’s like a really interesting toy. And if we can just pry it out of their hands, then we can get it accepted by big banks and then it can do something useful.” Whereas our side… you’re putting people off. Huh? You’re putting people off all this anarchist talk, you know. Yeah, exactly. “We’re trying to sell this thing.” Yeah, I had—so our side was like more like, “Oh, this is like an actual new economic paradigm,” right? And you know, so it’s interesting because now all the Bitcoin maxis are very Bitcoin maxi, but I’m—for example, when I first met Pieter Wuille or Sipa—one of the core devs of Bitcoin—in 2011, and I was talking to him in a conference, and he says, “Oh, I’m not really interested in the monetary aspect of Bitcoin. Right. I’m more interested just in the scripting—just the tech. Okay, right. Because it enables smart contracts and programmability.” Yeah. He wasn’t interested in the money thing. Right. So this new Bitcoin fanatic ideology is like retroactive. Back then, people in Bitcoin were like, “Oh, we want to explore.”

**[20:28] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, I mean, for the longest time, there was this thought that, you know, all innovation that happens elsewhere will come back to Bitcoin, right? It’s inevitable. You know, we don’t have to be like pushing anything ourselves because, you know, it’ll just all come home.

**[20:47] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, the problem with Bitcoin is that it became taken over by these people that they like going to conferences. Right. It’s like, you know, they see people they know—a lot of, you know, culty, massive Bitcoin people. You know, they’ll want to like, “Oh, I love you. You’re amazing.” You know, like. And these people, they’re not interested in the bigger mission or sensitive. It’s like it’s about themselves. And so Bitcoin got taken over by these like influencers, essentially. Yeah. And the thing is, when somebody comes and says, “You know, let’s do something big, let’s rock the boat,” yeah, they’re going to see that as an enemy because that’s why Bitcoin is so conservative—it’s been taken over by this class of people.

**[21:38] SPEAKER_03:** There was like sailors—like absolutely the worst for this. There was a little video of him I saw the other day or yesterday, which was saying the biggest risk to Bitcoin is like competent and enthusiastic devs. Well, I need to see the full quote, because that sounds ridiculous. But he basically seems to have gone for this absolute, full-on ossification of saying, you know, these developers, they want to actually change things, and that’s a problem. We should never change anything. We need to be thinking in hundred-year timelines. Because, you know, this is the proof of—sorry, this is the store of value that’s going to save humanity. And that’s all there is, right? That store of value narrative. And don’t use it. Don’t use your Bitcoin. Well, the thing is, there’s this book from the 90s.

**[22:50] SPEAKER_02:** Which is *The Sovereign Individual*. I’m not saying I agree with all the book, but it does make interesting analysis. It’s definitely worth studying. And it says that Israel in 1997—and it’s talking about cryptocurrency—and it’s saying how the invention of cryptography will enable the proliferation of markets like markets in cyberspace, and the capital will become hyperliquid. You know, we’ll be able to flow from any place to any other place, and the governments would lose their power—right, taxes, capital, or control this capital. Yeah, and therefore it would inherently change the logic of violence, right? And yet—and this is also a very big idea in originally in crypto as well—you know, early days of Bitcoin people would always bring out this book. And yet, it hasn’t come to fruition. So, you know, just in case—it hasn’t come to fruition. And so we have to ask ourselves why? Like, I don’t think the thesis is wrong. I just think the thing that they missed was surveillance because the surveillance apparatus, obviously, can monitor all the flows or the activity of people. And if you can do that, then now you have law enforcement. Right. So, yeah. And, you know, you… I’ll be able to pause a sec. For sure. I just need to listen to this. Yeah, yeah.

**[24:52] SPEAKER_03:** So, you know, from what I could see, you know, you started traveling around the world a bit, right? You were in various different places at different times. I mean, were you, you know, going around meeting different people, like building, you know, building different things? How was that?

**[25:13] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I was traveling a bit. I actually come from a movement of anarchist hackers in Europe, which were living in squatted buildings. Right, right. So, you know, there’s like in Europe, there’s all these squatters’ laws, which if a building is like abandoned, you can move into the building. And some squats, they last for years. Yeah. And we’d get amazing buildings. So in Amsterdam, we had a huge house. Imagine we’re working on free software. We’re broke devs. It’s a really useful lifeline to have. And also like living in the center of the cities—I mean, like now and even working in crypto, I look at the price of property and like it’s ridiculous. Yeah, it’s like really ridiculous. I think like societies really need that kind of stuff—like support people working on projects and software and stuff like that. It’s a shame we don’t. But anyway, I was part of those hacker movements, so I had, like, lots of places in Europe I could go to. You know, we would have communities—people working on free software—in Barcelona, in London. London, I saw them. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So when did your focus switch to Dark Wallet? So actually, I made the first CoinJoin and Stealth implementations in Bitcoin, which are the very first privacy techniques. And so I was working on Bitcoin implementations, nodes, but I was also focused on the privacy. So I already did those projects before. Right. And then the Dark Wallet—I was like, “We need to create a product. We need to create a wallet or something.” Right. So that’s why we made the Dark Wallet. And when did you first meet Vitalik? Can you remember? Yeah. So I said I was living in these squats around Europe. Yeah. So after 2012, then… there was a friend I met many, many years ago when I was hitchhiking, and he was a really cool dude. And I just saw him randomly on the internet and I was like, “Bro, I’m making a conference. Come to my conference.” And he’s like, “Okay.” And I didn’t hear back from him. Okay. It turns out he just walked onto a ferry without any documentation from—he came from Estonia across Europe. Right. And he came into England and he was like—he now looked like Jesus, but he had like long hair and long beard and stuff. Didn’t look good for an entry. Anyway, Mihai—yeah, yeah. Met him at the conference. It was like enchanted by him. He was like, “I just met this guy, your friend. He looks like Jesus, man.” And then I can’t remember how it happened, but yeah. So then he was meant to come back with me to my house, but actually he missed the train. Okay. And so he ended up just walking into around the building in London and that was like the building of the Occupy activists. Right. Then I went there and then Mihai came and we just started living there and then we started setting up our hack lab right there. But then also I have friends in Spain that are hackers that also they’re making these communities. They also had Calafou. So then they decided to make Calafou, which was eco-industrial. Near Barcelona, right? Yeah. So I was living with Mihai, I think, for like a year in London. Right. And then we went to Calafou in Barcelona. Right. And Mihai co-founded the Bitcoin Magazine with Vitalik. Right, right. And so then I was also working on the Bitcoin Magazine with them. Oh, I see. Right, right. You know, I didn’t write loads of stuff. It was mainly those guys writing stuff. But, like, for example, I helped Mihai with the graphic design. Right. Like, some of the covers I helped design when we were high. There you go. So then, anyway, we went to California, and then Vitalik came to live with us. Yeah. So then it was—and then there was like two other Spanish hackers, which are old friends of mine. And we were working together on projects. Yeah, right, right. That was when we started Dark Wallet, right? I knew Cody from the conference. So I said like, “Cody, this star is the wallet.” Which conference—from the Amsterdam conference, the London one? That’s the one that you… right, right? Was that the one that you organized? Yeah, I did the 2011 one in Prague. Right. And the 2012 one in London as well. Right, right. Yeah. So, yeah, at the time we were working together in the Hack Lab. Mihai had his, I think it was Akasha. I’m not sure. No, I think he did that later. Oh, no, it was Agora or something. Right. Anyway, he was creating, I guess, what Darkfire is going to be now—like a social network marketplace kind of thing. Okay. So then he was working on that and my friends were working on that. And Vitalik was working on Bitcoin stuff. I was working on Bitcoin stuff. Right, right. And then he was also working—they were working on the magazine. Yeah. So we were doing a whole bunch of stuff there in Hack Lab. Yeah, right. And then, you know, we co-founded the Dark Wallet. Right. And Peter Todd as well? No, Peter Todd came later. But you can see the original Dark Wallet announcement video on YouTube. And it has all the co-founders listed. So yeah, we were working on that. So the CIC was a network of 10,000 cooperatives throughout Catalonia. Okay. And the whole reason that was made is because there’s like a big anarchist movement in Catalonia. Yeah, yeah. And they… you know, they’d been doing their thing for many years. Right. But then they started to mature as anarchists. And they were like, “So to think more about economics. Right. Organization and stuff.” Right. It’s something I also like about this Spanish tradition of anarchists. Right. They’re a lot more organized than, for example, like London, where it’s just like crazy people going, you know, like. Yeah. So they… yeah, so they were like, “Okay, we need to make a network of cooperatives. And cooperatives need to provide all the basic things that people need to live. And we would therefore become autonomous from the state. So we’d become our own parallel system,” which is cool, cool stuff. And so our team was actually the cryptocurrency part of that. They were interested in cryptocurrency because, for example, trading inside the network allows people to avoid paying taxes because they consume from each other. But they also wanted to exchange outside of it. So they can use cryptocurrency to do that. So we set up the first ATMs in Catalonia. Right, right. Cryptocurrency is part of this cooperative. Right. But they also had a research lab, which was a giant factory complex in the Catalan countryside. Right. Which is—it was burnt down and the people came there with a proposal to the owner to buy it from the owner. Right. But then also there they had like—it’s like a village basically, it’s massive. Right. But they had like an industrial research sector, electronics—one of them was the hacking stuff, which is our club, right? And that’s where we were doing our cryptocurrency stuff. Right, right. But anyway, as part of that research of the CIC and the tools that the CIC needed—that’s how we came up with these ideas, which is the ones maybe you’ve seen the page—it’s on archive, right—on System One, talking about BitLaw. Anyway, I’m not sure. Anyway, there’s like a bunch of pages on our old wiki, right? And it’s talking about like, “Oh, what the applications we need to build with Bitcoin.” Right. So then that’s when Vitalik started to become interested in those ideas. Right, right. So then afterwards he left to Mastercoin—yes, the Bitcoin—he was like, “Okay, yeah, loosen the restrictions on the opcodes.” Yeah. And the Bitcoin people were like, “No. Yeah, we’re not changing.”

**[33:50] SPEAKER_03:** And so then he went to Mastercoin and then he went to do Ethereum. He was saying he’d also seen what happened with Counterparty, right, where they were like chopping down the, you know, the up returns stuff. Yeah, it’s like, “Okay, don’t want to like build some meta protocol on top of this if it’s going to get—they’re going to change their mind next month and it’s like, right, you know, your protocol’s dead.”

**[34:17] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, so… yeah, so they… then when they were making Ethereum, that’s, you know, with Anthony Di Iorio and all those people. Well, yeah. I forgot also a bit before. The first Dark Wallet hackathon was in Milan. Yeah, I was going to mention. So Mihai was in Milan for a fair bit, right? Yeah, we were all together. We would travel together and go to these places. But anyway, Macau’s also like a really big… gambling? Huh? Gambling? Oh, no, in Milan. Oh, I thought you said… it’s a community centre called Macau. Oh, I see. Yeah, it’s huge as well. It used to be a meat processing plant. But anyway, they have loads of cultural things there. But anyway… yeah, yeah. They let us use it for a month to do our event. Right. So that’s when Taylor—yeah, right—a lot of those early Ethereum guys—Hive, Hive Wallet—they came there and that’s how they all met each other. Right. The early co-founders. Yeah. And then also Richard Stott—yeah, designer—he was also my friend from London. Oh, right. That’s how Mihai met him.

**[35:40] SPEAKER_03:** I see. And Gavin Wood also came to visit us in London. Yeah. So Vitalik had shared, like, a few years ago, shared his first communications with Gavin, where Gavin contacted him on the 19th of December 2013 through about.me, and Gavin said… he said, “Where are you with Ethereum? I can do C++,” basically. And then four days later, he’d created his repo to start working on C++ Ethereum. But the other bit I forgot there is Johnny gave me the heads up. That’s what he said, which was Johnny Bitcoin. Um, who he had met through you, right? So Gavin came to the squat at some point in London. Yeah, yeah. We were hanging out because he said he’s a KDE developer. Right. He’s written LIRC. Right. So I think in one of the interviews he said, “I’m gonna give my KDE email because it’ll like—that’ll give me cred.” Oh yeah, it did. I was impressed by it. I was like, “Whoa, he’s got a KDE email. That’s impressive.” That’s right. That’s funny. It worked. It did. So he came along and then I guess he was talking to Johnny and Johnny must have mentioned Vitalik and Ethereum and pointed him onwards.

**[37:34] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I also… when I visit them in Anthony Di Iorio’s—that’s where that hackathon. Yeah. So, yeah—is Anthony Di Iorio a co-founder of Ethereum? Yeah, so he put money into it. Yeah, he did. Oh, what happened to that money like… um, I—I—he did things well. Yeah, he got…

**[38:00] SPEAKER_03:** So he basically lent money to the project for those early months of development, and he did get paid back out of the crowd sale. There was some court case where it was like, “Did he get it back as Bitcoin or as fiat?” There was some kind of disagreement on that, but that got finished off. But yeah, the timeline was… Vitalik did the white paper in about November 2013. He shared it with a bunch of people. I don’t know if he shared it with you—if you were on that list of people who got it early. Oh, right, the BitLaw. Yeah, yeah. Right. So just a whole bunch of different—right. So yeah, transparency, arbitration, auditing and transparency, multisigs. Yeah, a whole bunch of cryptocurrency 2.0 use cases. So they did ask me to be the lead Ethereum dev?

**[39:04] SPEAKER_02:** Right, but I just didn’t—I was like, “We can build this on Bitcoin. Right, right. Why do you need a new thing?” Yeah, because I know you can build it on Bitcoin. Right, at the time. But yeah, that December, and I kept also pressing the guy right to explain to me what it can be used for. Yeah, and he just kind of in frustration just went, “Marriage contracts.” Not so appealing. No, no. I don’t see the point. But yeah, December. It’s interesting because sometimes you can be too closed-minded about things. Right, right. But yeah, that December, you know, after he shared the white paper around, you know, various people started gathering around.

**[39:49] SPEAKER_03:** I think what led to Ethereum’s success was having a token. Having the token is like really good because it allows the project to accrue value. Whereas working on Bitcoin, we were always broke. Right, right, right. Yeah, I mean, those early months, you know, no one was being paid on Ethereum either. And it’s like, you know, “We will have a token sale. You will get paid back.” But, you know, it’s—you know, hoping a dream happens. But, yeah, the hackathon that you’re talking about was in April of 2014 in Toronto. So, Anthony Di Iorio running that. He’d got, you know, Bitcoin Decentral—sort of co-working space and venue. There were a bunch of projects running out of there. You know, it was kind of like… yeah, he’d say sort of like businesses running. I mean, I don’t know how great businesses they were. Projects were operating out of that. And then one of the things that they did was organize this first Canadian Bitcoin conference—to which it’s funny. So he got the space. He was the head of the Bitcoin Association of Canada. The Bitcoin Association were running the conference. Ethereum were the main sponsor for the conference. So it was like: his space, his organization, his conference, his sponsors. And somebody said at some point, “Is this how marketing works? That you’ve just got all these different hands that are