**[00:03] SPEAKER_02:** Okay, recording is in progress. It says so. Hello, everybody. Today, delighted to have Christoph Yance with us. We did attempt to record this two weeks ago, but I forgot to press the record button. So we spoke for an hour or so, and then it was not recorded. This is round two. So, hello, Christoph. How are you?

**[00:31] SPEAKER_00:** Hi, Rob. Nice to meet you again. I'm doing good. I hope you too. Thanks for the invitation.

**[00:37] SPEAKER_02:** Fantastic. Yeah. So, Christoph and I, you know, our paths crossed for the first time way back in 2015 when I was trying to do C++ Ethereum on my smartwatch. And this was around the time that Christoph was still at the Ethereum Foundation. And then I think I crossed paths across a number of times since, and Kieran's too. Indeed. So, Christoph, what were you doing with your life before you found Ethereum and joined this crazy journey?

**[01:24] SPEAKER_00:** So the journey started in 2013. I was doing my PhD in theoretical physics, actually about self-organizing systems. So like biology, six months in mathematical biology and other things. So I was studying systems which have local rules and global behavior. And I came across Bitcoin, which is just a small set of local rules and a global behavior as a currency. But the reason I came... was I was looking for cheap GPUs, like graphic cards. And the Bitcoin miners were selling their GPU mining rigs to get some FPGAs and later ASICs. And so that's how I got into Bitcoin mining. And so I bought my first Bitcoin, got into this bubble, did read everything I could about it and then I came across the white paper from Vitalik early 2014, something like January February, and some Bitcoin forum somewhere, and I was already totally in love with the idea of Bitcoin being a decentralized currency and all the characteristics and features of it. And this white paper, if you read it again, it's almost a prophecy. Except of NFTs, everything's in there, from DAOs, from ENS, like domain names, systems and all of that. So for me, it opened up this option of building applications with the same characteristics as Bitcoin. But just for the currency, but everything else. And so then I started reading everything about it. And in 2014, in summer, I read that the crowdsale was in 2014, right? So around the time the crowdsale happened, I watched a video from Gavin Wood. He was somewhere in the Nordics, some conference there. And he talked about Ethereum. I loved it. And he said you want to open up an office in Berlin, looking for C++ developers. I was a C++ developer. So in trajectory physics, it's 90% software development. So I said, well, I want to do this. So I took my parental leave time plus some vacation time from and passed my PhD for like three or six months and said I will return after I'm done. I thought this was just a short project because they raised money, maybe six, maybe 12 months, 18 months or so, then it's over. When I started, I thought about maybe three to six months, and then I go back to my PhD. So I worked there with Ethereum, with Gavin Wood, it was a great time, and then just decided to stay. It was so exciting.

**[04:03] SPEAKER_02:** So you never got to be a doctor? No, I'm not a doctor.

**[04:07] SPEAKER_00:** I did not finish my PhD, although I only had six months left, which was kind of a pity. I worked for three years on that. But I also had at the time, I think four or five kids. I needed some money. I didn't get much money as a PhD student. So I did software development as a side hustle, basically. And so when I got this project, I said, well, let's do this for two or three months as a parental leave time, and then I can return. And then I decided to really interrupt my PhD. I will maybe return one year later because I thought the foundation would eventually run out of money because they're not making any profits. It just raised donations. Then it was spent. That's over. Then I can continue my PhD. That was originally a plan. Just came different.

**[04:50] SPEAKER_03:** I mean, I guess it's never too late, right?

**[04:53] SPEAKER_00:** I actually sometimes think about if I should return. It's just so much to learn again. I'm right now doing Tokenize. I'm basically working on tokenizing German companies. It works very well. And so currently I'm not planning on getting back anytime soon.

**[05:09] SPEAKER_02:** No, because I mean, famously you had Dr. Gavin Wood and Dr. Christian Reitwiessner as well. And I think there were a couple of other PhDs as well.

**[05:20] SPEAKER_01:** There was definitely. I also dropped out of mine. I was actually in mathematical physics too. Interesting. Similar background.

**[05:31] SPEAKER_00:** It's actually the same. Like theoretical physics, it's the mathematical part of physics. I enjoyed it very much. I did thermodynamics and statistics, mostly software development. It was really fun.

**[05:43] SPEAKER_01:** Well, by the way, Jim is trying to join. I don't know if there's anything that needs happening. He gets some browser issues.

**[05:53] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Yeah. Well, he'll pop up and we can add him or if he's, then never mind. So, so, Christoph, in terms of, you know, getting hired into EF dev and I'm sorry if I just missed it. So how did that happen? Did you meet Gavin at a meetup? Did you say yes? I actually I listened only to his talk. It was an online thing and I actually just wrote him an email and said, look, I would love to join Ethereum, love what you're doing. And he invited me to meet me in Kreuzberg, Berlin. Which again is about two hours drive from here. So I went up there, met him. I remember the first conversation he was talking about all the stuff they were going to build and said, well, what what can you do? And I just asked him, what's like the most complicated stuff you have right now? That give me a complicated task. I somehow can figure it out. So he talked about the Ethereum virtual machine, which did some testing. Hi, Jim. So I just picked working on testing the Ethereum virtual machine or writing tests for it. Back at the time, I actually had no real idea what he was talking about. Meaning, of course, I did understand on the white paper level, I did understand what Ethereum was about. But Gavin had this skill of writing the yellow paper, which is still incredible work. It's such a great specification, different from Bitcoin, really having a specification. So multiple clients could be built. And in there, he defined the Ethereum virtual machine. And I think I read the paper six or seven times. I felt like I was one out of, I don't know, 10 or 20 people in the world at the time who really understood the yellow paper. I did corrections to it. I have some pull requests actually in the yellow paper GitHub repo, added missing definitions and stuff like that. And then what I mostly did was writing tests according to the specification, which then were with the help of the C++ client, because this was his team. So I was working also on the C++ code base. And so Geth, PyEthereum, also the JavaScript version, and what else did we have? Like Haskell client and others. I'm basically using my tests to see if they are implemented in the virtual machine, also the state transitions and block creation correctly.

**[08:05] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, yeah. So I mean, just to have some timeline for the viewers. So Vitalik wrote the white paper in November 2013. Various other people sort of joined in on the efforts in December, including Gavin and Jeff, who started the C++ and Go clients, respectively, at the very end. Oh, my goodness. At the very end of December, kind of Christmas projects for them both. January 2014, he had sort of like the public announcement of Ethereum at the Bitcoin Miami conference. It was as early as April 2014 that Gavin wrote the yellow paper, which is, you know, as you were saying, the sort of formal specification. You had the crowdsale between July and September 2014. So then, yeah, you were coming in right after that. So you had a wave of arrivals in September and October of that year, essentially, because the crowdsale had happened. There was some money to actually hire people. And talking about you know where you where you met there initially that group so EF dev were and is a company coordinating the development of Ethereum stuff so it's a subsidiary of the Ethereum Foundation. Were working initially in a co-working space but then got an offer and it was between August and November of that year that the office was getting like you know done up and tidied and then in November you had DevCon Zero, you know the first conference, you know an internal one where a lot of the people, that was their first sort of face-to-face meetings. How was DevCon Zero? How was that? What was that like?

**[10:21] SPEAKER_00:** It was like a company retreat. So it was not a public conference. Even though there were some outsiders who felt like part of the community, maybe also pushed some code. I remember, I was in his name again, wrote the book also about Ethereum, did LEXUS. From IBM.

**[10:40] SPEAKER_03:** Oh, Henning.

**[10:41] SPEAKER_00:** I think Henning. Yeah, I think he was also there, just as an example of some people who were like, reading about Ethereum, interested in joining. Of course, Joseph Lubin.

**[10:48] SPEAKER_02:** Roman as well, right? Roman.

**[10:50] SPEAKER_00:** Roman was there.

**[10:50] SPEAKER_02:** Roman Adelaide with the Java clients.

**[10:52] SPEAKER_00:** But it was mostly developers. But also, I think Stefan Toal was already there. So they had already the London team. So it was like an internal Ethereum meeting. Kind of a meetup almost. I think three days or so. I don't know exactly. Five days even. So it was a full week. I was there for the full week, as far as I can remember. I did a presentation about testing, how the test suite is very important. Yes, we had Remix projects, Solidity project, I think, mostly started at the time. Gavin used this for explaining his vision of Ethereum as a platform for decentralized application, so building Swarm. I don't know if Swarm and Whisper was already launched there, but at least the generic idea, the Mist browser. So all those ideas are really sketched out there, like the technical roadmap, what we are going to build. Because we started just, of course, with the basic clients, like implementing the protocol, but he took it like, kind of, what are we going to do in the next 12 months? Building the Mist browser, like we mix all of those tools to have a platform for these and those applications. I remember one slide, which I think I posted on Twitter a while ago, where you have those three circles, one circle is at one node, and you would see like they are connecting on the blockchain, using Swarm for the data, Whisper for the messages, like this whole picture was painted there. And there are people attending, I think around 50 people, plus, minus 10, don't know the exact number, where most of the developers talking about code, coding there. Joseph, I remember him being there saying, well, all of you, you will create your own companies, becoming millionaires. I remember Joseph talking about that. And I think mostly he was right. So most of those people in the room in one way or another, co-founded, founded or early part of companies building on top of Ethereum in the years to come.

**[12:45] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Yeah. Let me see if I can do a little a little screen share. No, no, I can't work at home. Not not to worry.

**[12:57] SPEAKER_01:** But but yeah, this is present button.

**[13:01] SPEAKER_02:** Does that not work? Yeah, I don't see that. Is that on the right-hand side somewhere or at the bottom?

**[13:06] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe you have a different... For me, I appear on the top right and below. And to the right of me below, there's a present button with like a plus sign.

**[13:16] SPEAKER_02:** Oh, never mind, never mind. I was just going to show the iconic photo of people at DevCon Zero, right? You know, that's this big group shot with nearly everyone who was out there. You know, so that's a classic photo. Ethereum photo. So I was looking, sorry, there's like 11 of the videos that are still around from DEVCON0. I think there are about 20 sessions. I'm still trying to dig out the others. Some of them, including yours, I have not managed to find yet.

**[13:51] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it was only about the test suite, how it built it, how people would use it. It was rather technical. There was not much of a vision in there.

**[13:59] SPEAKER_03:** Well, Lefteris presented on Emacs, so you're not the most boring talk.

**[14:06] SPEAKER_00:** Again, it was just some nerds starting. Also, for most of them, it was the first time we actually met. And of course, the C++ team, they didn't know each other because they're working in the co-working space. Lefteris Karoulas and others were there. But then, let's say, I think it was the first time I actually met Vitalik. Because he came there then of course Jeffrey and his team, Stephan's team, Joseph Lubin. So it was for me it was the first time to meet all of them and having talks and since we really had time five days a small group of people we actually do have time to eat together to talk so it was not not so crowded maybe as Defcon is today. Very intimate. It was good. Yeah. I mean, far from it.

**[14:47] SPEAKER_01:** One thing I can't quite remember. So there was a time there was an Ethereum Slack that was kind of open to the public. You know, there were a lot of people. The sort of Ethereum affiliation status was fairly vague at that point. And I remember we were using Skype a lot in those days, just the team. And Vitalik liked to Skype. And then at some point, I sort of lost the thread of like, where the core, like I can't remember where the core development discussions were happening. And maybe I'll ask Jim to comment also, just like those tests, we kept like getting them. And I think I'm thinking of some a little bit earlier on and we'd build them and Jim was mostly working on them and would update on the like passing percentage, which would always be between like 93 and 98%. And then something would change, you know? But yeah, like where did the discussion, because yeah, between like sale and DevCon zero, I think it kind of got a little bit, like moved around where the dev discussion was.

**[16:03] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it was mostly Skype. We also had Skype channels for almost everything, like the C++ team and so on. Then in a short time, there was a note taker, which had a name also with E something. Etherpad? Yeah, Etherpad, something like this, right? There were some notes being written there, but the communication was really, I would say 99% Skype for me. Later on, we used a tool called, Based on GitHub, what was the name of it?

**[16:32] SPEAKER_02:** Gitter. It was called Gitter.

**[16:34] SPEAKER_00:** Gitter came later. This was like the replacement for Skype, but I didn't use it too much. This was actually during the time when I was actually leaving. But it was done, used also by C++ team. There you had a channel per GitHub repo. This was during the time that GitHub was completely reorganized because at the beginning it was like one big repo with everything. Then we had those sub-modules, it was so messy. And then during this process, we got Gitter. But yeah, for me, it was mostly Skype.

**[17:01] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, and then annoyingly, that kind of means a lot of these early discussions are kind of like a bit lost because nobody is using Skype. And Skype is getting like deleted. This is happening in February of next year.

**[17:15] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, I thought it happened already.

**[17:17] SPEAKER_02:** So you can still request a download, and I did, and then I haven't heard anything back and want to do that to see if I can get some of those. So everybody apply to download your Skype data. I remember with Gitter, there was a discussion about this that I was involved with at the EF later, which was saying the problem with Skype is it wasn't discoverable. You had to request to be added, but you had to know what was there to be able to do that request. So it was a bit of a chicken and egg situation. Whereas Gitter, it was like a one-to-one with the repositories. So if you're using a repo, there you go. There's a one-to-one channel with that. And it was discoverable and archived. But then Slack, I think, was even earlier. Oh, and there was the forum as well, right? It was an Ethereum forum too.

**[18:07] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it was important. And then Slack, I think I got introduced to Slack by Stefan Toal when he created a community for the DAO. When he looked for a new communication tool, he went with Slack. And at that time, it was not like today, like a business tool for the company. It was really communities. Like we had 5,000 people in our Slack, which is not how it's used today.

**[18:28] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, yeah. So welcome, Jim. Your technical problem.

**[18:33] SPEAKER_04:** Hi, sorry. I had some technical problems for a while there. But I don't know. I'm just listening to you guys. What happened that brought the whole world to Zoom suddenly?

**[18:45] SPEAKER_01:** It was in waves. On my side. I don't know.

**[18:53] SPEAKER_04:** I just woke up one day and everything was Zoomed from then on.

**[18:58] SPEAKER_01:** Suddenly, like a statistical phase transition. You know, I think it was two phases, right? I would always get invited to corporate, let's say 2017 to 2019 when I was doing primarily BD, I found that I would get invited to any of 10 video conferencing tools. And, like, you know, what was the Cisco one? WebEx. That was horrible. I would get that a lot. Google meetings didn't feel sufficiently corporate or something, even though it was okay. And Zoom had the best quality for a while. And I found that everyone picked Zoom at the same time, like mid-2018, let's say.

**[19:45] SPEAKER_02:** I think it was just quality to me. Yeah. I mean, Microsoft really fumbled, right? Skype had got such a lead for so long. But Zoom just seemed more reliable, whatever weird little proprietary magic they had going on.

**[20:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah.

**[20:01] SPEAKER_04:** I guess I was under the impression that Zoom was for businesses.

**[20:07] SPEAKER_01:** I think that's, well, that is true. But it was just that still, I mean, this has gotten way better in the last 10 years, but still nothing really works for reliable video over the internet. It's just much better than what... existed but there was a free version always and it would just like time you out so like they had a fairly viral acquisition loop where like I was just going to say in the pandemic once when people were locked down it became a consumer tool where people would have like yard large yoga classes or you know sermons or whatever with like 500 people on a Zoom and then everyone got called.

**[20:53] SPEAKER_04:** I remember it well, all of a sudden, like my, my parents were like calling me up and they were like, we found this awesome new tool. You probably never heard of it. It's called Zoom.

**[21:01] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah.

**[21:02] SPEAKER_02:** Let's move on from sharing about video platforms. So I look back. So Jim's first commits on the Haskell client were mid-September 2014. So, you know, a couple of months ahead of DevCon 0 that you'd had the yellow paper for five months at that time. And I did find on our Slack, you know a bit of a thread where where things I think from you Christoph were were being discussed by Jim I don't know did you guys interact directly at all on on testing Jim Christoph? Not directly not as far as I can remember. I mean maybe there was some messages. I mean it's about it has been a while ago.

**[21:58] SPEAKER_04:** I could be wrong. I may have met you briefly in London when we had that conference, but it would have been like, uh, like hi, you know, quick, quick, quick greetings at a party, you know, an after party or something.

**[22:14] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, 10 years ago, lots of people, sure. We were testing GitHub repo, and we had all the major clients using it. And I was interacting, mostly asking, responding questions. I mean, of course, the C++ time, I was super close to. I used the C++ time also to pre-fill the tests. So this was... per default right, except we found there was a test failing, but actually C++ was wrong. So sometimes this happened. The test was not really failing, just C++ was wrong. But in the majority of cases, C++ was right. So we were just having those conversations, and we found tons of issues. We did, not just in the beginning, I wrote those tests using actually bytecode, the very first test. Then I went to a low-level Lisp-like language. This was LLL. This was the... precursor to Solidity by Gavin. And then in the end, actually, I had automated like fast testing where I wrote software that would create thousands of tests that we had some AWS, like over 100 cores of machines constantly creating tests. We had always some failing on some versions of Geth or other clients. So this was mostly what I did during one and a half years.

**[23:28] SPEAKER_02:** Right, right. So so yeah I mean I guess for the viewers something that Ethereum chose to do differently from Bitcoin was to have this specification separate from the client software right. So you know when Bitcoin started, it was the code that happened first and the the white paper afterwards, but the white paper wasn't a protocol specification. So you know, Gavin was doing that yellow paper spec in parallel with the C++ client, which was sort of the first one, while you have Vitalik working on the Python client, Jeff working on the Go internally, but then you've got all these other clients as well, right? So the Java one by Roman, I think, started in about April or May. You know, ourselves, Jim and Kieran here with a Haskell client starting in September, you had JavaScript as well.

**[24:28] SPEAKER_00:** So it's more like a library. I don't, don't know if it's really like a syncing client, but they have all the tools so you can in your web app kind of integrates part of, part of it to verify. So it states.

**[24:39] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. I mean, I think maybe they had a syncing client at some point apart from it, obviously like couldn't actually keep up, but theoretical, um, and, um.

**[24:51] SPEAKER_02:** And yeah, like a little later, there was a Ruby client as well. And yeah, at one point there were eight different clients.

**[25:01] SPEAKER_00:** Right. If you want to, I can tell the story of why we all are using Geth today. Yeah, this is not absolutely not a given at the time. Of course, everyone had different opinions, but the C++ client was really the fastest, the most solid one passing all the tests and so on. But Gavin always wanted to add new features. We went to a refactoring and he was a perfectionist, which is not bad for this kind of software. And then the time came for the security audit, because everybody wants to launch Ethereum now. And we said, before we launch it, those clients need to have a proper security audit by an external company. And one of the companies doing this was Deja Vu in Seattle. So I actually went there with a team for the audit. And because Gavin wanted to build some more features, he said, well, let's just guess can go first. Let's first audit the Go client. When they are done, I'm done with the features I wanted to build. And then we're going into the audit for the C++ client. So Geth was audited. They had some issues. They fixed the issues. And now it's fine. And so there was technically no reason why not. Well, actually, we could launch Ethereum now. We have a fully audited client. Testnet is running for a while. No major issues. No failing tests for a long time. So why would we wait for the C++ client to be audited? I mean, they all really had the pressure of money was running out. We need to launch now. And then a decision was made. Let's launch with Geth. They can still use C++. It's just not audited. Let's say in two months or so, the audit is done, and then they can use C++ even more if they want. But then the big mistake was, in my view, when they made this announcement of you can start now, they recommended using Geth because it was the audited one. So almost everybody won Geth. This was like, we started with almost 100% Geth, and then there was just a minor other clients using, only very few did use them. And so after the audit was done, nobody switched for like, sure, but Geth is running, I'm synced, like what's the issue, why should I switch? And so we had this 19, 10 or 18, 20 distribution, it just stayed like this. So if Gavin would have been either say, let's just do the audit now and we just have both audited and then start, maybe we would have 50-50. Or even the other way around, if they would have first audited in C++ and Ethereum would have been launched without a Geth audit, they would have received a total switch. And then, of course, money was going low in the foundation. They had to reduce the team. And because Geth was the most used one, there were some issues with Gavin. Another story, maybe have a talk with him. And so in the end, Ming decided to basically kick out the complete C++ team. This was then shortly before DEF CON 1. So something like November, October-ish. But yeah, I think the reason for that was also C++ wasn't really that used. Also, there are other reasons as well. But you can see how a tiny thing can have such big consequences down the road, like him doing Polkadot today and all of that. And he was great. I mean, I really, I still think, I think maybe we would have had a mistake and sharding way earlier if Gavin would have stayed. So without him, they moved slower. And of course, the price went up. There were no security relevant things. So changes happened not quickly anymore, but take more time and so on. But I think this was a big loss for Ethereum that Gavin left basically in 2015.

**[28:28] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, it's amazing.

**[28:30] SPEAKER_01:** The client side was the cause. I think it was part of it. The process maybe started with the Red Wedding, which we discussed in some other early days of Ethereum episodes. I remember very clearly in the room, it was like two weeks into my Ethereum tenure at that time, that he was talking about brain drain if it was only going to be a nonprofit foundation and not going to have a commercial arm.

**[29:04] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, there were more issues than that, definitely. Like this was not the deciding part, but it was like those things were adding up. I remember that Gavin had this idea of turning the foundation into a DAO and then having for-profit entity next to it, which would build things and make money. So there were many different commercial ideas at the time. So he then basically started on his own ETH Core. I remember he wanted to have me as part of it, but I decided to do Slockit at the time. So that's why I did not became a co-founder of ETH Core. Another story, we can go into this if you want. You know what happened after that. But there are many reasons we are part of it. I think also him and Ming didn't really get along too much. There was not really a trust relationship going on. Of course, money running out, different visions of how Ethereum should evolve technically and economically, if you want. All played a role, but I think it was just one part that the C++ client wasn't really used that much. And the reason for that was Geth being audited and we launching without an audit for the C++ client.

**[30:07] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. I mean, talking about features, so many things happened, right? Gavin had this period of incredible productivity between that December and that April of getting from nothing, just having the white paper, all the way through to having a working client, having the yellow paper. As you mentioned, you know there's this this diagram showing how how Whisper and Ethereum and Swarm were intended to fit together and I I found some more timing on that was so Swarm was envisaged by Daniel Nagy as far back as 2011. I know it was a it was a year an idea he'd been working on for like three years before that I I spotted on the Whisper presentation that Gavin did that he that that was a pre Ethereum idea as well so it was probably only when all of these people came together it was like well you've got this storage idea you've got this blockchain kind of like cpu databasey idea And then if you have messaging, all of these things can fit together. But it's always, it's also, we're going to build our own IDE as well. Browser. Mist Browser. I'm sorry?

**[31:39] SPEAKER_00:** Plus the Mist Browser. The complete thing it's a it's a complete platform for decentralized applications end to end this was the big mission and also this was what attracted me to it I mean having someone having a really proud vision of a new internet if you want that's what he called that three that's where the term comes from because it was not just a little tool it was a complete new internet called Web3 from data to messaging to smart contract blockchains to IDE to browser And this vision was very, very attractive. This attracted all the talent and the developers because they loved building that.

**[32:15] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I mean, it's a very, very expensive vision. And yeah, it was, you know, Gavin, as you say, you know, Web3 was him. Prior to that, the language I saw was really about Bitcoin with smart contracts. You know, that was really sort of the genesis of the talent going through That journey of colored coins and MasterCoins and meta protocols and that kind of positioning of Bitcoin is a calculator and Ethereum is a smartphone. But it was all that kind of like blockchains and applications, right? It wasn't that full Web3 vision, which I think that really came from Gavin.

**[33:02] SPEAKER_00:** You have to attribute this to him. He was having this big vision. This attracted also too many people. It attracted also that even the business people, they could now understand what it actually is. Other than this was just like tech. Let's see. But this is like a broad vision of how business function, how like this new financial world would happen. They could understand this far better. then having this iPhone calculator comparison, this was maybe a nice technical thing.

**[33:28] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Yeah. But then for it being a very expensive vision, that's that's a lot of work. Sure.

**[33:35] SPEAKER_00:** But I just thought somewhere.

**[33:36] SPEAKER_02:** That's it. So I mean, you know, talking about Gavin, the features. So, yeah, there was a ton of stuff on that on that C++ team. Aleph Aleph zero as well. And Aleph one. So Aleph one being the GUI miner. How would you describe Mist?

**[34:00] SPEAKER_00:** Kind of the first interface to the blockchain in some way, like the first graphical interface to a blockchain client. What could it do? Of course, you could mine, you could deploy a smart contract, you could make it visible somewhat what's happening there. It was not really end-user friendly in any way, but it was just a replacement of what people just do on the command line. Usually command line, when your client has some input, has some output, and it was the first kind of graphical user interface, replacing the command line.

**[34:32] SPEAKER_02:** I guess it's sort of like a combination of Like what you have with the block Explorer now, apart from it, that's, that's like a view only. And this was both a view and a, and a, and a do. Um, yeah. But yeah, those GUI clients.

**[34:54] SPEAKER_00:** But much more influential than the Mist browser. The Mist browser, I think there's a video by Alex van der Sande. It's like a 10-minute video on YouTube. They had this prototype. They're not working yet, but just take it until you make it. The vision of the Mist browser. And this also really made us understand how Ethereum could work for the end user. Having different identities connected to wallets, and you would load those steps. Is it an IPFS hash or... even over Swarm one day the app was loading and you could do some finance stuff there this gave us an idea of what ethereum could be it was so you have to think Vitalik gave us a rather technical vision and fraud intellectual thing but Gavin gave us his pros internet vision Alex van der Sande gave us this very concrete thing what an end user could do with that in the next six to 12 months maybe it's very important

**[