**[00:03] SPEAKER_08:** Okay, recording is in progress. It says so. Hello everybody. Today I’m delighted to have Christoph Jentzsch with us. We did attempt to record this, Christoph and I, two weeks ago, but I forgot to press the record button, so we spoke for an hour or so and then it was not recorded. So this is round two. So hello, Christoph. How are you?

**[01:24] SPEAKER_01:** Hi, Rob. Nice to meet you again. I'm doing good. I hope you too. Thanks for the invitation. Fantastic, yeah. So Christoph and I, our paths crossed for the first time way back in 2015 when I was trying to do C++ Ethereum on my smartwatch. And this was around the time that Christoph was still at the Ethereum Foundation. And then I think I crossed paths a number of times since, and Kieren’s too. Indeed. So, Christoph, what were you doing with your life before you found Ethereum and joined this crazy journey?

So the journey started in 2013. I was doing my PhD in theoretical physics, actually about self-organizing systems—like biology, six months in mathematical biology and other things. So I was studying systems which have local rules and global behavior. And I came across Bitcoin, which is just a small set of local rules and a global behavior as a currency. But the reason I came across it was I was looking for cheap GPUs, like graphic cards. And the Bitcoin miners were selling their GPU mining rigs to get some FPGAs and later ASICs. And so that's how I got into what's Bitcoin mining. And so I bought my first Bitcoin, got into this bubble, read everything I could about it. And then I came across the white paper from Vitalik early 2014, something like January, February in some Bitcoin forum somewhere. And I was already totally in love with the idea of Bitcoin being a decentralized currency and all the characteristics and features of it, and this white paper by Vitalik—if you read it again, it's almost a prophecy. Except for NFTs, everything's in there—from DAOs, from ENS like domain names, the terms and all of that. So for me it opened up this option of building applications with the same characteristics as Bitcoin, but just not a currency—everything else. And so then I started reading everything about it. And in 2014, in summer, I read that the crowd sale was in 2014, right? Yeah. So around the time the crowd sale happened, I watched a video from Gavin Wood. He was somewhere in the Nordics, some conference there, and he talked about Ethereum. I loved it, and he said they wanted to open up an office in Berlin, looking for C++ developers. I was a C++ developer—so in theoretical physics, it's 90% software development—so I thought, well, I want to do this. So I took my parental leave time plus some vacation time and put my PhD on hold for like three or six months and said, I will return after I'm done. I thought this was just a short project because they raised money—maybe six, maybe 12 months, 18 months or so—then it's over. When I started, I thought about maybe three to six months, and then I go back to my PhD. So I worked there with Ethereum, with Gavin Wood—it was a great time—and then just decided to stay. It was so exciting. So you never got to be a doctor? No, I'm not a doctor. I did not finish my PhD, although I only had six months left, which was kind of a pity. I worked for three years on that. But I also had at the time, I think four or five kids. I needed some money. I didn't get much money as a PhD student. So I did software development as a side hustle, basically. And so when I got this project, I said, well, let's do this for two or three months as parental leave time, then I can return. And then I decided to really interrupt my PhD with the idea that I would maybe return one year later because I thought the Foundation would eventually run out of money—they're not making any profits, they just raised donations, then they will spend them and then it's over—then I can continue my PhD. That was originally the plan. Just came different. I mean, I guess it's never too late, right? I actually sometimes think about if I should return. It's just so much to learn again. I'm right now doing Tokenize.it. I'm basically working on tokenizing German companies. It works very well. And so currently I'm not planning on getting back anytime soon. No, because I mean, famously you had, you know, Dr. Gavin Wood and Dr. Christian Reitwiessner as well. And I think there were a couple of other PhDs as well. There was definitely.

**[05:22] SPEAKER_04:** I also dropped out of mine. I was actually in mathematical physics too. Interesting. Similar background. It's actually the same—like theoretical physics, it's the mathematical part of physics. I enjoyed it very much. I did thermodynamics and statistics, mostly software development. It was really fun. Well, by the way, Jim is trying to join. I don't know if there's anything that needs happening. He gets some browser issues.

**[05:53] SPEAKER_08:** Yeah, yeah. Well, he'll pop up and we can add him, or if he's—I'll see. And then never mind. So, Christoph, in terms of you getting hired into FDEV—and I'm sorry if I just missed it—

**[06:09] SPEAKER_01:** How did that happen? Did you meet Gav at a meetup, did you say? Yes. Actually, I listened only to his talk. It was an online thing. I actually just wrote him an email, said, look, I would love to join Ethereum, love what you're doing. And he invited me to meet him in Kreuzberg, Berlin. So, which again is about two hours drive from here. So I went up there, met him. I remember the first conversation—he was talking about all the stuff they were going to build and said, well, what can you do? And I just asked him, what's like the most complicated stuff you have right now? Like, give me a complicated task. I somehow can figure it out. So he talked about the Ethereum rich machine, which did some testing. I'm Jim. So I just picked working on testing the Ethereum Virtual Machine or like writing tests for it. Back at the time, I actually had no real idea what he was talking about. Meaning, of course, I did understand on the white paper level—I did understand what Ethereum was about. But Gavin had this skill of writing the Yellow Paper, which is still incredible work. Like, it's such a great specification, different from Bitcoin, really having a specification so multiple clients could be built. And in there he defined the Ethereum Virtual Machine. And I think I read the paper six or seven times. I felt like I was one out of, I don't know, 10 or 20 people in the world at the time who really understood the Yellow Paper. I did corrections to it. I have some pull requests actually in the Yellow Paper GitHub repo, added missing definitions and stuff like that. And then what I mostly did was writing tests according to the specification, which then were—with the help of the C++ client, because this was his team. So I was working also on the C++ code base. And so Geth, PyEthereum, also the JavaScript version. And what else did we have? Like Haskell client and others. They're basically using my tests to see if they implemented the Ethereum machine, also the state transitions and block creation correctly.

**[08:05] SPEAKER_08:** Yeah, yeah. So I mean, just to have some timeline for the viewers—so Vitalik wrote the white paper in November 2013. Various other people sort of joined in on the efforts in December, including Gavin and Jeff, who started the C++ and Go clients respectively at the very end—oh my goodness—at the very end of December, kind of Christmas projects for them both. January 2014, he had sort of like the public announcement of Ethereum at the Bitcoin Miami conference. It was as early as April 2014 that Gav wrote the Yellow Paper, which is, you know, as you were saying, the sort of formal specification. You had the crowd sale between July and September 2014. So then, yeah, you were coming in right after that—you know, so you had a wave of arrivals in September and October of that year, essentially because the crowd sale had happened. There was some money to actually hire people. And then talking about where you met there initially—that group, FDEV, were and is a company coordinating the development of Ethereum stuff, so it's a subsidiary of the Ethereum Foundation. They were working initially in a co-working space but then got their own office, and it was between August and November of that year that the office was getting like, you know, done up and tidied. And then in November you had DevCon 0—you know, the first conference, an internal one.

**[10:10] SPEAKER_01:** Where a lot of the people—that was their first sort of face-to-face meetings. How was DevCon Zero? How was that? What was that like? It was like a company retreat. So it was not a public conference. Even though there were some outsiders who felt like part of the community, maybe also pushed some code. I remember—I was in his name again—wrote the book also about Ethereum, did Lexus. From IBM. Oh, Henning. I think Henning. Yeah, I think he was also there, just as an example of some people who were, like, reading about Ethereum, interested in joining. Of course, Joseph Lubin. Roman as well, right? Roman. Roman was there. Roman Adelmann with the Java clients. But it was mostly developers. But also, I think Stefan Tual was already there. So he had already the London team. So it was like an internal Ethereum meeting—kind of a meetup almost. I think three days or so. I don't know exactly—five days even. So it was a full week. I was there for the full week, as far as I can remember. I did a presentation about testing—how the test suite is very important. Yes, we had Remix projects, Solidity project—I think mostly started at the time. Gavin used this for explaining his vision of Ethereum as a platform for decentralized applications, so building Swarm. I don't know if Swarm and Whisper was already launched there, but at least the generic idea—the Mist browser. So all those ideas are really sketched out there, like the technical roadmap—what we are going to build. Because we started just, of course, with the basic clients, like implementing the protocol. But he took it like, kind of, what are we going to do in the next 12 months? Building the Mist browser—like we mix all of those tools to have a platform for these and those applications. I remember one slide, which I think I posted on Twitter a while ago, where you have those three circles—one circle is a node, and you would see like they are connecting on the blockchain, using Swarm for the data, Whisper for the messages—like this whole picture was painted there. And there are people attending—I think around 50 people, plus minus 10, don't know the exact number—where most of the developers talking about code, coding there. Joseph—I remember him being there saying, well, all of you, you will create your own companies, becoming millionaires. I remember Joseph talking about that. And I think mostly he was right. So most of those people in the room—

**[12:35] SPEAKER_08:** In one way or another co-founded, founded, or were early part of companies building on top of Ethereum in the years to come. Yeah, yeah. Um, let me see if I can do a little screen share—no, no, I can't work at home—not to worry. But yeah, there's this present button—

**[13:01] SPEAKER_04:** Is that not working? Yeah, I don't see that. Is that on the right-hand side somewhere or at the bottom? Maybe you have a different... For me, I appear on the top right and below. And to the right of me below, there's a present button with like a plus sign.

**[13:16] SPEAKER_08:** But you're the host, maybe. Never mind, never mind. I was just going to show the iconic photo of people at DevCon Zero, right? You know, that's this big group shot with nearly everyone who was out there. You know, so that's a classic Ethereum photo. So I was looking—sorry, there's like 11 of the videos are still around from DevCon Zero. I think there were about 20 sessions. I'm still trying to dig out the others—some of them, including yours, I have not managed to find yet.

**[13:51] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it was only about the test suite—how it built it, how people would use it. It was rather technical. There was not much of a vision in there. Well, Lefteris presented on Emacs, so you're not the most boring talk. Again, it was just some nerds starting. Also, for most of them, it was the first time we actually met. And of course, the C++ team—they didn't know each other because they're working in the co-working space. Lev Tretyakov and others were there. But then, let's say—I think it was the first time I actually met Vitalik because he came there. Then, of course, Jeffrey and his team, Stefan Tual and his team, Joseph Lubin. So for me, it was the first time to meet all of them and having talks. And since we really had time—five days, a small group of people—we actually did have time to eat together, to talk. So it was not so crowded maybe as DevCon is today. Very intimate. It was good. Yeah, I mean, far from it.

**[14:47] SPEAKER_04:** One thing I can't quite remember. So there was a time there was an Ethereum Slack that was kind of open to the public. You know, there were a lot of people. The sort of Ethereum affiliation status was fairly vague at that point. And I remember we were using Skype a lot in those days, just the team. And Vitalik liked to Skype. And then at some point, I sort of lost the thread of like, where the core—I can't remember where the core development discussions were happening. And maybe I'll ask Jim to comment. Also, just like those tests—we kept like getting them. And I think I'm thinking of some a little bit earlier on—and we'd build them. And Jim was mostly working on them and one update on the like passing percentage, which would always be between like 93 and 98%. And then something would change, you know.

**[15:48] SPEAKER_01:** But, yeah, like, where did the discussion—because, yeah, between sale and DevCon 0, I think it kind of got a little bit, like, moved around where the Dev discussion was. Yeah. It was mostly Skype. We also had Skype channels for almost everything, like the C++ team and so on. Then in a short time, they used the—it was a note taker, which had a name also with E—something. Etherpad? Yeah, something like this, right? There were some notes being written there, but the communication was really—I would say—99% Skype for me. Later on, we used a tool based on GitHub—what was the name of it? Gitter. It was called Gitter. Gitter came later. This was like the replacement for Skype, but I didn't use it too much. This was actually during the time when I was actually leaving. But it was done—used also by C++ team. There you had a channel per GitHub repo. This was during the time that GitHub was completely reorganized because at the beginning it was like one big repo with everything. Then we had the submodules—it was so messy. And then during this process, we got Gitter. But yeah, for me, it was mostly Skype.

**[17:01] SPEAKER_08:** Yeah, and then annoyingly, that kind of means a lot of these early discussions are kind of like a bit lost because nobody is using Skype. And Skype is getting like deleted. This is happening in February of next year. Oh, I thought it happened already. So you can still request a download, and I did, and then I haven't heard anything back and want to do that to see if I can get some of those. So everybody apply to download your Skype data. I remember with Gitter, there was a discussion about this that I was involved with at the EF later, which was saying the problem with Skype is it wasn't discoverable. You had to request to be added, but you had to know what was there to be able to do that request. So it was a bit of a chicken and egg situation. Whereas Gitter, it was like a one-to-one with the repositories. So if you're using a repo, there you go—there's a one-to-one channel with that. And it was discoverable and archived. But then Slack—I think—was even earlier. Oh, and there was the forum as well, right? It was an Ethereum forum too.

**[18:07] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it was important. And then Slack—I think I got introduced to Slack by Stefan Tual when he created a community for the DAO. When he looked for a new communication tool, he went with Slack. And at that time, it was not like today—like a business tool for the company. It was really communities. Like we had 5,000 people in our Slack, which is not how it's used today. Yeah, yeah. So welcome, Jim. Your technical problem. Hi, sorry. I had some technical problems for a while there.

**[18:38] SPEAKER_04:** But I don't know. I'm just listening to you guys. What happened that brought the whole world to Zoom suddenly? It was in waves. On my side. I don't know. I just woke up one day and everything was Zoomed from then on. Species, like a statistical phase transition. I think it was two phases. I would always get invited to corporate—let's say 2017 to 2019 when I was doing primarily BD—I found that I would get invited to any of 10 video conferencing tools. And, like, you know, what was the Cisco one? WebEx. That was horrible. I would get that a lot. Google meetings didn't feel sufficiently corporate or something, even though it was okay. And Zoom had the best quality for a while. And I found that everyone picked Zoom at the same time, like mid-2018, let's say. I think it was just quality to me. Yes.

**[19:48] SPEAKER_08:** I mean, Microsoft really fumbled. Right? Skype had got such a lead for so long, but Zoom just seemed more reliable—whatever weird little proprietary magic they had going on. Yeah, and then I guess—I was under the impression that like Zoom was for businesses.

**[20:07] SPEAKER_04:** I think that's—well, that is true. But it was just that still—I mean, this has gotten way better in the last 10 years, but still nothing really works for reliable video over the internet. It's just much better than what existed, but there was a free version always and it would just like time you out. So like, they had a fairly viral acquisition loop where—I was just going to say—in the pandemic, once when people were locked down, it became a consumer tool where people would have like yard large yoga classes or you know sermons or whatever with like 500 people on a Zoom—and then everyone got called, yeah.

**[20:53] SPEAKER_02:** I remember it well—all of a sudden, like my parents were like calling me up and they were like, we found this awesome new tool. You probably never heard of it. It's called Zoom.

**[21:02] SPEAKER_08:** Well, yeah, there were like ten. Let's move on from sharing about video platforms. So I look back—so Jim's first commits on the Haskell client were mid-September 2014. So, you know, a couple of months ahead of DevCon Zero—that you'd have the Yellow Paper for five months at that time. And I did find on our Slack—you know, a bit of a thread where things I think from you, Christoph, were being discussed by Jim. I don't know—did you guys interact directly at all on testing, Jim, Christoph?

**[21:58] SPEAKER_02:** Not directly—not as far as I can remember. I mean, maybe there was some messages—I mean, it's been a while ago. I could be wrong. I may have met you briefly in London when we had that conference. But it would have been like quick greetings at an after party or something.

**[22:14] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, 10 years ago, lots of people—sure. We were testing GitHub repo and we had all the major clients using it. And I was interacting—mostly asking, responding questions. I mean, of course, the C++ team I was super close to. I used the C++ team also to pre-fill the tests. So this was per default, right—except we found there was a test failing, but actually C++ was wrong. So sometimes this happened. The test was not really failing—just C++ was wrong. But in the majority of cases, C++ was right. So we were just having those conversations, and we found tons of issues. We did—not just in the beginning—I wrote those tests using actually bytecode, the very first test. Then I went to a low-level Lisp-like language. This was LLL. This was the precursor to Solidity by Gavin. And then in the end actually I had automated fast testing where I wrote software that would create thousands of tests. We had some AWS—like over 100 cores of machines—constantly creating tests, and we had always some failing on some versions of gas or other clients. So this was mostly what I did during one and a half years.

**[23:28] SPEAKER_08:** Right, right. So, yeah—I mean, I guess for the viewers, something that Ethereum chose to do differently from Bitcoin was to have this specification separate from the client software. Right? So when Bitcoin started, it was the code that happened first and the white paper afterwards—but the white paper wasn't a protocol specification. So Gav was doing that Yellow Paper spec in parallel with the C++ client, which was sort of the first one, while you have Vitalik working on the Python client, Jeff working on the Go client internally—but then you've got all these other clients as well, right? So the Java one by Roman—I think—started in about April or May. You know, ourselves—Jim and Kieren here—with the Haskell client starting in September. You had JavaScript as well. Right—it's more like a library. I don't know if it's really like a syncing client, but they have all the tools so you can, in your web app, kind of integrate parts of it to verify certain states. Yeah. I mean, I think maybe they had a syncing client at some point—apart from it obviously couldn't actually keep up—but theoretical. And—

**[24:51] SPEAKER_08:** And yeah, a little later, there was a Ruby client as well.

**[24:57] SPEAKER_01:** And yeah, at one point there were eight different clients. Right. If you want to, I can tell the story of why we all are using Geth today. Yeah, this is absolutely not a given at the time. Yeah, of course, everyone had different opinions, but the C++ client was really the fastest, the most solid one—passing all the tests and so on. But Gavin always wanted to add new features. We went to a refactoring and he was a perfectionist, which is not bad for this kind of software. And then the time came for the security audit because everybody wants to launch Ethereum now. And we said, before we launch it, those clients need to have a proper security audit by an external company. And one of the companies doing this was Deja Vu in Seattle. So I actually went there with a team for the audit. And because Gavin wanted to build some more features, he said, well, let's just—Geth can go first. Let's first audit the Go client. When they are done, I'm done with the features I wanted to build. And then we're going into the audit for the C++ client. So Geth was audited—they had some issues—they fixed the issues—and now it's fine. And so there was technically no reason why not—well, actually we could launch Ethereum now. We have a fully audited client, testnet is running for a while, no major issues, no failing tests for a long time. So why would we wait for the C++ client to be audited? I mean, they all really had the pressure—money was running out—we need to launch now. So, and then the decision was made—let's launch with Geth. They can still use C++. It's just not audited. Let's say in two months or so, the audit is done, and then they can use C++ even more if they want. But then the big mistake was—in my view—when they made this announcement of you can start now, they recommended using Geth because it was the audited one. So almost everybody ran Geth. This was like—we started with almost 100% Geth—and then there was just a minor other clients using—only very few did use them. And so after the audit was done, nobody switched—for sure—but Geth is running, I'm synced—like, what's the issue? Why should I switch? And so we had this 90-10 or 80-20 distribution—it just stayed like this. So if Gavin would have either said, let's just do the audit now and we just have both audited and then start—maybe we would have 50-50. Or even the other way around—if they would have first audited the C++ client and ETH would have been launched without a Geth audit—they would have received a total switch. And then, of course, money was going low in the Foundation. They had to reduce the team. And because Geth was the most used one—there were some issues with Gavin—another story—maybe have a talk with him. And so in the end, Ming decided to basically kick out the complete C++ team. This was then shortly before DevCon 1—so something like November, October-ish. But yeah, I think the reason for that was also the C++ team wasn't really that used. Also, there are other reasons as well. But you can see how a tiny thing can have such big consequences down the road—like him doing Polkadot today and all of that. And he was great. I mean, I really—I still think—I think maybe we would have had a mistake in sharding way earlier if Gavin would have stayed. So without him, they moved slower. And of course, the price went up. There were no security relevant things. So changes happened—not quickly anymore—but take more time and so on. But I think this was a big loss for Ethereum that Gavin left basically in 2015.

**[28:28] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, it's amazing. The client side was the cause. I think it was part of it. The process maybe started with the Red Wedding, which we discussed in some other Early Days of Ethereum episodes. I remember very clearly in the room—it was like two weeks into my Ethereum tenure at that time—that he was talking about brain drain if it was only going to be a nonprofit foundation and not going to have a commercial arm.

**[29:03] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, there were more issues than that. Definitely. This was not the deciding part, but it was like those things were adding up. I remember that Gavin had this idea of turning the Foundation into a DAO and then having a for-profit entity next to it, which would build things and make money. So there were many different commercial ideas at the time. So he then basically started on his own EthCore. I remember he wanted to have me as part of it, but I decided to do Slockit at the time. So that's why I did not become a co-founder of EthCore. Another story—we can go into this if you want. You know what happened after that. But there are many reasons—we are part of it. I think also him and Ming didn't really get along too much. There was not really a trust relationship going on. Of course, money running out, different visions of how Ethereum should evolve technically and economically—if you want—all played a role. But I think it was just one part—that the C++ client was not that much used—and the reason for that was Geth being audited and being launched without an audit for the C++ team. Yeah—um, I mean, talking about features—so many things happened right—

**[30:13] SPEAKER_08:** Gav had this period of incredible productivity between that December and that April of getting from nothing—just having the white paper—all the way through to having a working client, having the Yellow Paper. As you mentioned—you know—there's this diagram showing how Whisper and Ethereum and Swarm were intended to fit together. And I found some more timing on that—Swarm was envisaged by Daniel Nagy as far back as 2011. It was an idea he'd been working on for like three years before that. I spotted on the Whisper presentation that Gavin did—that was a pre-Ethereum idea as well. So it was probably only when all of these people came together—it was like—you've got this storage idea—you've got this blockchain kind of like CPU database-y idea—and then if you have messaging—you know—all of these things can fit together. But it's always—it's also—we're going to build our own IDE as well. Browser. Browser—Mist Browser. I'm sorry? Plus the Mist Browser.

**[31:40] SPEAKER_01:** The complete thing—it's a complete platform for decentralized applications end to end. This was the big mission. And also this was what attracted me to it—I mean, having someone having a really proud vision of a new internet—if you want—that's what he called that three—that's where the term comes from—because it was not just a little tool—it was a complete new internet called Web3—from data to messaging to smart contract blockchains to IDE to browser.

**[32:07] SPEAKER_08:** And this vision was very, very attractive. This attracted all the talent and the developers because they loved building that. Yeah—I mean, it's a very, very expensive vision. And yeah—it was—you know—Gav, as you say—you know—Web3 was him. Prior to that, the language I saw was really about Bitcoin with smart contracts. You know—that was really sort of the genesis of Vitalik going through that journey of colored coins and Mastercoins and meta-protocols—and that kind of positioning of Bitcoin is a calculator and Ethereum is a smartphone.

**[32:53] SPEAKER_01:** But it was all that kind of like blockchains and applications, right? It wasn't that full Web3 vision—which I think that really came from Gavin. You have to attribute this to him. He was having this big vision. This attracted also too many people. It attracted also that even the business people—they could now understand what it actually is. Other than this was just like tech—let's see. But this is like a broad vision of how business function—how like this new financial world would happen. They could understand this far better than having this iPhone calculator comparison. This was maybe a nice technical thing. Yeah. But then—for it being a very expensive vision—that's a lot of work. Sure. But I just thought somewhere—that's it. So I mean—you know—talking about Gavin—the features. So yeah—there's a ton of stuff on that C++ team. Aleph Zero as well. And Aleph One. So Aleph One being the GUI—

**[33:52] SPEAKER_01:** Miner. Um—and then—how would you describe Aleph Zero? Kind of the first interface to the blockchain in some way—like the first graphical interface to a blockchain client. And what could it do? Of course, you could mine—you could deploy a smart contract—you could visit—make it visible somewhat what's happening there. It was not really end user friendly in any way—but it was just a replacement of what people just do on the command line. Usually command line—when your client has some input, has some output—and it was the first kind of graphical user interface—graphical user interface replacing the command line. I guess it's sort of like a combination of—

**[34:37] SPEAKER_08:** Like what you have with the block explorer now—apart from it—that's like a view only. And this was both a view and a do. Um—yeah.

**[34:50] SPEAKER_01:** But yeah—those GUI clients. But much more influential than the Mist browser. The Mist browser—I think there's a video by Alex van de Sande. It's like a 10-minute video on YouTube. They had this prototype—they're not working yet—but just take it until you make it. The vision of the Mist browser. And this also really made us understand how Ethereum could work for the end user. Having different identities connected to wallets—and you would load those apps. Is it an IPFS hash or—even over Swarm—one day the app was loading and you could do some finance stuff there. This gave us an idea of what Ethereum could be. So you have to think—yeah—Vitalik gave us a rather technical vision—an abstract intellectual thing—but Gavin gave us his Web3 internet vision—Alex van de Sande gave us this very concrete thing—what an end user could do with that in the next six to 12 months. Maybe that's very important.

**[35:47] SPEAKER_08:** Just yesterday, actually—so there was an announcement from Uniswap about them sort of turning on fees and doing various things that are more kind of to do with the company and the protocol tying together. And I saw a reaction to that saying—well, I'm never going to use this again. You can't—you know—extract ongoing revenue out of a protocol. And this person then said—it's time for Mist too. Totally. I've heard this before. We need the full vision so that you've got hosted apps—and the apps—and you don't need a server and you don't need a company and you can just make this pure—you know—immutable smart contract wrapped in a UI that's all decentralized.

**[36:43] SPEAKER_01:** You think we could have a Mist too? I would love to see this. I heard people thinking about this before. I don't know if anybody really started the project—but—

**[36:52] SPEAKER_04:** Should be totally doable today. It's not rocket science. You know—let me interject. We ourselves have made sort of different attempts at this where like you just download the app from the chain itself. Pretty much it worked fine. And I guess it just wasn't as much a differentiator. Like it made things a little slower to do it this way all the time. I also think like one of the people that took the Web3—the world computer vision—seriously—it was like the Internet Computer people. And I don't know anyone that uses Internet Computer—but like every once in a while I see tweets about it and I'm like—that sounds great. Yeah—start the app from the chain. You know—it's got some cool like smart contracting language in it. Yeah—I guess there's just no demand if it like slows the app down even slightly. And I think MetaMask and then many other wallets were sort of enough—still not the whole thing—but yeah—I guess it's like—you got to get people to use it if you want it to be maximally cypherpunk too. I fully agree—and I mean yeah—

**[38:13] SPEAKER_01:** The problem with this is you only need it if you really need it. Meaning—if Uniswap failed—the interface is not there. It's like a backup. But it's not what you want to use daily. And if you remember—Kieren—you were there at DevCon 1. When they presented MetaMask—my first thought was—oh this is totally away from the vision—like how can you not run a full node—how can you dare you like to just serve over RPC with Infura—like almost not a scam—but it was like not what we intended to build. Today it's like this is a decentralized version of it—this is like non-custodial—the MetaMask or the good guys—compared to all the others. See how the view shifted over the years. Back then—it was