**[00:04] SPEAKER_01:** Okay, we are live. Welcome to this week's Unchained Oracles. As usual, I am joined. I'm Victor Wong. I'm founder and chief product officer at Strato. And as usual, I am joined with Kieren James-Lubin, CEO of Strato. And the man with the oranges, Jim Hermosdior, CTO of Strato.

**[00:31] SPEAKER_03:** From sunny California that's not so sunny right now.

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Have you eaten many oranges or are they just for show?

**[00:38] SPEAKER_03:** There's a tree behind me.

**[00:41] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, nice. Well, this week we are going to do our crypto year in review recap. But before we get into that, two quick things. One is, at some point during the show, I will announce a special giveaway. And it's going to be a really special year-end giveaway. But in preparation, we recommend that everyone get a Strato account, if you don't have one already, and join our Telegram, because those will be two parts of it.

**[01:12] SPEAKER_02:** And before we get into the... The URL to sign up?

**[01:16] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, thank you. It is strato, S-T-R-A-T-O,.nexus to sign up.

**[01:25] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, and you can go straight to app.strato.nexus.

**[01:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. And thanks, Kieren. And Ben, we are joined by Michael Tan today for our Strato Spotlight, because we have lots of new features to show. So Michael. What do you have for us today to talk?

**[01:46] SPEAKER_00:** Hi, everyone. Hey, so I'm showing you guys the easy savings path today. Basically, it's bridging in stables from Ethereum and saving them earning yield in the lending pool. So I start by connecting my Ethereum wallet as such. It's a really simple process. As long as you have it in the browser, my wallet is connected. I can pick between USDC and USDT. We're going to be adding a couple of different stables soon, including yield bearing ones. Let's bridge in a hundred here. Make sure this is checked so that it goes directly into the lending pool. We just add these cool modals, but you just need to confirm everything, sign the permit, confirm the transaction. Why is it? All right, there you go. Takes a couple of seconds. Waiting for the all safe. Great. Now we should be receiving the deposit one to two minutes into the lending pool. And that is your easy savings, fastest and easiest way to earn points on Strato.

**[02:55] SPEAKER_01:** And now- So in the background, what's happening, Michael? It looks like we're converting from USDC into our local stables, USDST, and then putting it into the lending pool. Is that right?

**[03:08] SPEAKER_00:** Yep, that's correct. And you could do the same with USDT if you'd like. Awesome. And we also have a bridge out feature if you ever need that over here. But for now, this is the easiest way to get money in the lending pool and start earning.

**[03:22] SPEAKER_01:** Cool. And as everyone knows, we launched our season one reward program roughly two weeks ago. So how's that going, Michael?

**[03:31] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, so we have quite a bit of points that have been issued. You can kind of check it here. The leaderboard, if you go to this tab, you can also go here to go directly to the leaderboard from the sidebar. But as it currently stands, it looks like I'm number 13 on this. You can check out the different activities in the network that are being done to earn points as well as the rewards here. These are your different positions that are currently earning points. And this is my lending pool from Easy Savings.

**[04:04] SPEAKER_01:** Awesome. You got to bump up your activity to get up on the chart. You got to get to the top three soon. Well, thank you for joining us, Michael. And we look forward to the next segment. So with that, take care. Thanks, Michael. Okay, so let's talk about the crypto year in review. This has been like, when I kind of like reflected, I realized this kind of been a crazy year for crypto in general. And I think for us specifically, like there's just been so much going on. So let's start with what you think is the biggest story of the year. And I'm going to start with Jim. Jim, from your point of view, what do you want?

**[04:49] SPEAKER_03:** You know, I want to push back a little bit on this one because I'm not going to push back. I'm going to answer the question, but I found this the least interesting of the questions, because sort of by definition, the biggest story is the stuff that we've all been talking about nonstop all year. Anyway, it's the stuff that's been in the news. So it's just like, my answers to this are just going to be boring and obvious. It's like in crypto in general. Well, sorry. It's at BlockApps. The big story was that this was a development here. Like, we spent the whole year, we figured out what we wanted to do early on, we spent the whole year really making a great product and really only released it in the last few months so that is the big story from us. In crypto in general the big story was just the crazy ride that crypto took. It was like, you know, Bitcoin was down and then it was up and then it was down again. I don't even know where it is today. Somewhere in the middle of the year, I have this memory of seeing Eric Trump live in Toronto introducing some crypto project. So it's just sort of a crazy ride this year in crypto. But I will pass it on.

**[05:58] SPEAKER_01:** Okay, Kieren, what was your biggest story of the year?

**[06:01] SPEAKER_02:** Okay, so I'll quibble with Jim a little bit. I think, I guess mine's a little bit a meta story. So it depends what you mean by big. Like I have a little bit of a philosophical objection to news. News is always point in time and it doesn't really tell you trend. I think we would agree on this. And people that over-index on the current and then under-index on like what's really going on. And the biggest one for me was that adoption and in price have continued to decouple. We started to see maybe 2023, 2024, that the supply of stables on chain, it previously was correlated with crypto prices and then started to stop being correlated with crypto prices. And stables on chain are all time high and transaction volumes and stables doubled again between 2024 and 2025. I believe, I asked the AIs this, they all said that. So at the same time prices are a little bit down from beginning of the year to end of the year so this may just be how it is for a while. There's also other metrics like active wallets are up by maybe 10 million depending on the time interval that you consider. There are different estimates mobile's up 20-ish percent. And also the institutions are clearly doing more than waiting in they're actually like quietly moving money with stables especially around the world. And there's more of a kind of recurring institutional buy that's going on where crypto part of the reason it's been so volatile is that you know a bunch of very aggressive speculators are buying and selling rapidly. And if you compare stocks, the stocks that get included in the major indexes, you know, quite often people have their send 500 bucks a month to Vanguard. Right. And so that smooths out the volatility to some degree in, let's say, high, you know, medium to high market cap stocks. Right. That's actually a little bit starting to happen in crypto. I think at some point you'll see some of the assets get included in indexes. So that same pool of capital will start to flow into crypto. It's been friendly on the regulatory side, at least largely. The U.S. is passing some of the laws. The laws may not be perfect, but they're better than before. And also just the behavior of the regulatory agencies is far less aggressive, far less arbitrary and capricious, if you will. And yet the prices are not up. So to me, this is OK. It might be a sign of maturity, but this is the story.

**[08:55] SPEAKER_01:** Or do you think part of it might be that, like, the adoption from institutions and more mainstream things is sort of a leading indicator of where it goes? Like, it's not like, you know, some big BlackRock announces some big thing and they turn it on immediately.

**[09:12] SPEAKER_02:** So, you know, maybe like it does feel like to me that most of the times the institutions are early and, you know, retail price action comes later. You see that like funding private companies, you know, that you kind of you need retail slash the public markets to get that next liquidity right. I'm not sure because there was a time you know when everyone had their stimulus checks and was gambling at home you know during the pandemic when like retail everything not just crypto you know era. So I don't know what the trend like now, I guess that was all stuff that was funded twenty seven twenty eighteen by ICOs, which were a mix of institutional and crypto whale retail and so on. So I don't know. I think the retail comes back, but it's a different form than than the last time. Like it you definitely most people that trade in general, this includes stock day trading something like 90 lose and on average it takes 18 to 24 months for them to admit it and stop and just total you know in effect but so we may have burned like a whole lot of people but different ones will come in the future i think.

**[10:46] SPEAKER_01:** So for me, I think the biggest story, well, maybe I'll start with the crypto one and then just my general theme, right? The crypto one is the return of building that matters in the crypto space. And what I mean by that is I think in the previous year, you know, it was sort of the rise of meme coins, right? Like people were just kind of like marketing was winning the day. And it really was the people who kind of like could make a big splash of excitement in the market and you know I was kind of shocked when I looked at the timeline that like the Libra was in February of this year like it feels so long ago and but like Now you see the projects that are rising, like,