**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Foreign.

**[00:21] SPEAKER_01:** Hey, everyone. We are live and we are here with two of my favorite people in the blockchain space. I would say, like, I, I guess we could say we're old friends, even though we're not that man.

**[00:35] SPEAKER_00:** It feels like it now, right? It.

**[00:37] SPEAKER_01:** It definitely does. So we're, we're talking about building enterprise blockchain with Microsoft. And just to set the context for everyone. Strado Block Apps and Microsoft have had a really long relationship. It goes all the way back to 2015, when Microsoft was building out the blockchain layer of Azure. They found us to be their partner and that became the first major partnership of the Ethereum ecosystem, which we launched back in Devcon 1. Unfortunately, York had to miss that, but it was instrumental in making it happen. Since then, in an industry with huge amounts of turnover change, I'm talking to two people who have been building from the beginning and are still building today. So I'm going to. I want to give you guys a little bit of your bio, even though I know you're uncomfortable with it, but it was really hard to actually narrow the accomplishments you guys have done over the last 11 years. So I'm going to start with you. Kieren Kiran is founder and president and CEO of Straddle Black Apps. He's one of the early Ethereum contributors working on the Haskell implementation and head of the Theorem's cryptocurrency research group. He founded Block Apps, launched the category of blockchain as a service with Microsoft, and kickstarted enterprise adoption of Ethereum without requiring deep protocol experience. He's a founding member of the Enterprise Ethereum Alliance. Wow, this is quite a lot of stuff. And under his leadership, Black Apps became the only blockchain platform available across all major cloud providers and built the first RWA projects for Fortune 500 companies, consortiums and governments. Blockap's latest project is STRATO, which is bringing defi to hard assets such as precious metals. So that's Karen and now I'm on to you, York.

**[02:36] SPEAKER_02:** That's amazing, by the way.

**[02:39] SPEAKER_01:** Okay, York Roads are third. Is the co founder of Blockchain at Microsoft. So York co founded the blockchain work at Microsoft all the way back in 2015, the same year he brought Block Apps onto Azure. Over the decade that followed, he built some of the most consequential enterprise blockchain deployments in the world. His team's work on the Microsoft cloud supply chain use blockchain to digitize industries across many industries. Today, York is director of Traceability at Microsoft Focusing on improving labor compliance across global supply chain, is the co founder of the X402 foundation, which is building the standard for agentic commerce on crypto. And he is also a professor at NYU and co founder at the NYU Ethical Tap Lab. I got through it, you know, but that's a lot of stuff and you know, that's like, you know, a tip of the iceberg of the achievements.

**[03:42] SPEAKER_02:** I was going to say there's like a couple other things in there that we won't have time to talk about, like the base protocol and.

**[03:49] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, exactly. Like I didn't even include that, you know, you were one of the founding board members of the EEA. But so let's, let's go right back to 2015. Okay. And I'll start with you, York. You co founded the blockchain work at Microsoft and when you were evaluating back in 2015, how did you choose Ethereum and how did you choose to work with us? Like, what were those conversations?

**[04:17] SPEAKER_02:** Like, so, so I went down this rabbit hole myself and just through my personal research and so I arrived at Ethereum after just navigating through like, where are the smart people? What are they doing? It has to be more than Bitcoin, you know, and you know, that sort of got me to okay, this is pretty interesting from a, from a tech stack engineering perspective. And actually Marley Gray, who I co founded the blockchain work with in 2015, had been working closely with Consensus already and you guys and the. We divided up the work essentially in August of 2015. I took all of the partner relationships so he could focus on his financial services customers where he was already seeing some traction right. From some of the ones that were leaning in more deliberately. I mean, that's also kind of amazing like where we are now at this

**[05:20] SPEAKER_00:** point,

**[05:23] SPEAKER_02:** by the way. I knew I was early in the market. I had done innovation waves prior to this. I usually spent. I knew in 2015 that I was going to do this for eight to ten years at least. And so I was very deliberate in changing my LinkedIn immediately right when I realized this is the next foundation wave that I'm going to be on. And it's been, you know, quite a roller coaster ride, as you guys know, but fun will it go to ride. So yeah, I mean, like, listen, at that time there was no other thing to look at really. Right. I mean, you know, some of them

**[06:04] SPEAKER_01:** not to name names, but other large organizations decided to like build their own or do something, you know, in that direction. You guys really interestingly took that you know, community approach by going to Ethereum.

**[06:17] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I mean, so that was also very much like where in 2014 Microsoft pivoted very much towards open source and like seeing the value proposition of open source. And so one of the internal conversations that we had was like, where do we want to spend our energy? Right. Should we spend our energy trying to, you know, build a new blockchain from the ground up or should we just embrace the ecosystem, which is something that Microsoft's always been good at from, you know, the first time I was at Microsoft in 1992 to the current day. And that seemed like the most logical thing to do. Right. There's a lot of interesting organizations and it was a vibrant community, you know, even in those early days. And you know, I think in the first year after I brought one of my full time engineering colleagues on board in early 2016, before we shipped Visual Studio code extension for nicotine development. We probably interviewed about 175 companies that year. Right. That were just in this very ecosystem in 2016. We're just looking for other interesting partners to partner.

**[07:31] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, that's awesome. So Kieren, take us back to that moment on your side. We were a very small team, five, six people still. We were still in consensus. Microsoft said they want to work with us, but we had to really gear up toward making this happen very quickly. What did that require of you and the team?

**[07:56] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, well, if I recall correctly, this is 2015 and we were announcing in London, let's say October, November, something like that. At Devcon 1. Everything was under wraps until then. Devcon 1 almost didn't happen. That's a different story for everybody. But there were some interesting times early on and Ethereum looked anything but inevitable at that time. I guess I would say what we did really helped solidify its position from having a good strong organic momentum at that time to being a household name. So. So yeah, so we got in touch with the team, we got spun up on the Azure infrastructure and it took a minute to understand what an enterprise IT deployment looks like then and it's quite different now, I'm sure, but it's sort of. There are.

**[09:01] SPEAKER_02:** It's a lot easier now.

**[09:02] SPEAKER_00:** It's a lot easier. The big thing was to get the software deployed at that time. Like Docker hadn't even really caught on all that.

**[09:15] SPEAKER_02:** Well, one of my colleagues, by the way, was responsible for the Docker Microsoft partnership.

**[09:22] SPEAKER_00:** Oh yeah. It's hard to think back. I mean we were just running binaries at that time and primarily so we did actually get Windows, Windows Server build through. But most of the time we targeted Linux. And I think one of the big innovations Satya made at that time, to York's point, was, you know, a full on like the sort of operating system almost moved into the hardware. Right. Like the cloud is one big giant operating system, if you will. And then Linux became almost, you know, they became virtual machines sitting on top of that giant operating system. And it all kind of worked cleanly together. So mostly what we had to do just translated over and amounted to sort of packaging, putting things together, etc. And I did a live demo and you know, we made fun of the Brits a little bit because the Internet was not so good during the live demo. So I was very worried. We had sort of like a dividend demo set up where we named Marley, you know, in the. As one of the recipients of, you know, cash disbursement. And, and that all, yes, went really great. And I think almost immediately, right. Like the next day we saw like a mild jump in the Microsoft stock price that, you know, can't certainly be attributed to the announcement, but like it,

**[10:51] SPEAKER_01:** you know, most of the Ethereum price.

**[10:55] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, that too. And just phone calls from big system integrators, banks, you know, et cetera. We saw, yeah, maybe it took another couple weeks to get on the marketplace, but you know, something like 200 companies at least launched instances from like medium to large. Typically there were a handful of startup types, but you know, like a lot of banks, et cetera. So it was symbiotic. Right. I think Microsoft had all the customers. Right. And especially, you know, you're more. It's an interesting thing where, you know, big profitable corporate organizations are both often more conservative but more able to invest in innovation. You know, they've, they've just got retained profits to be able to deploy. So yeah, it's funny to see gigantic companies and it opened a whole lot of doors where you, you know, like you're getting pulled into meetings in midtown Manhattan that the Big four set up and you're like, okay, like, this is cool. You know, I'm 25.

**[12:02] SPEAKER_02:** I know. Karen, do you remember working on the DTCC?

**[12:06] SPEAKER_00:** Oh man, that one was a doozy. That was quite a. Yeah, it's quite, quite the organization there. Yeah.

**[12:14] SPEAKER_01:** I mean, one thing to kind of like, I kind of want to touch on this like, because, you know, you have startup experience and really like you think of this like giant corporation, but it really felt like startup like, you know, we were kind of two startups and Ethereum itself was a startup. So, you know, like, how did the teams work together? Do you remember any times when, like, you have moments when you were like, oh, this is, like, this is crazy, or like, this is, you know, because that could be the start of a longer relationship.

**[12:46] SPEAKER_02:** I mean, I was like, you know, I. One of the reasons I came back to Microsoft was because of Satya Nadella. And I was like, I really appreciated his embracement of open source and also how he was thinking about changing the culture of the company. And one of the phrases that he used a lot was, people should have a growth mindset. Right? And this is really directed at enterprise employees at Microsoft and beyond. But growth mindset was two words that I very much could stretch the definition of, like, allow me to do the things that I thought needed to be done, which was really the intent of, of the words, and that it was trying to get people to, you know, to speak up and do the things that you think need to be done. And so Marley and I did that. Right? And we had a lot of, you know, in some ways we had permission, but we also had to be willing to take that risk. Right. And, you know, it's also one of the reasons why I was very deliberate. I knew, regardless of what anyone told me, that this would be definitely my next innovation wave. And so I was like, I'm. That's what I'm doing. Like, I'm going to put that on my resume and on my LinkedIn, right? Publicly, and literally did it that August, because I just knew, right? And so for me, it was, we're doing this because, you know, I had had to make a decision like, am I going to stay at Microsoft and push boulders up the hill for a long time, or am I going to go jump into the ecosystem? And I had just returned to Microsoft recently, and so that was a very deliberate choice as well. And so I didn't want to just jump ship because all of a sudden there was this other interesting thing that was exciting and fun and, yeah, it was a bumpy journey. I mean, there were certainly times when people. People had called me up screaming and saying, like, you know, we're talking to a major client here. What the hell are you guys doing?

**[14:48] SPEAKER_01:** Well, what do you. What do you remember from the. That or, you know, the early collaboration that we had with Microsoft? Karen, I mean, you talked about dtcc, but there was a lot of, yeah, probably.

**[14:59] SPEAKER_00:** I don't know if those NDAs expire or not.

**[15:01] SPEAKER_02:** Some of those are lifetime.

**[15:04] SPEAKER_00:** That one was hefty, right? We Put a lot of energy together and that one was intense.

**[15:13] SPEAKER_02:** Oh, it's like an early layer two implementation, effectively.

**[15:17] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah.

**[15:17] SPEAKER_02:** I mean, it was like we had to do it to get scale. And if you look at. If you squint and you look at what DTCC is doing now, it doesn't look all that different.

**[15:28] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And, you know, to that end. So I can't recall who set up this meeting. It might have been. It was with a big Latin bank and might have been. I. I think the gentleman who said is not so good.

**[15:46] SPEAKER_02:** Was. Was that in Brazil maybe?

**[15:52] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. I'm trying to keep it vague because, again, I, you know, I don't know.

**[15:56] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, the.

**[15:57] SPEAKER_00:** The state of all of the names and so on. But I remember, yeah, we were at Microsoft offices in Midtown, maybe on like a Friday. And like, I did some live coding exercise. I think Victor was there, but maybe Slazas was there, James as well. And I think you were there to York, though I am not certain. It could have been like a Marley being in town one. And, you know, we. We sort of like, talked about some workflow within the bank.

**[16:26] SPEAKER_02:** Right, Yeah, I do remember that, actually.

**[16:28] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And it kind of coded it up and like, showed like, we had the. At that time, a little app generator, you know, just to kind of get people going, show them ideas quickly. It was like, yeah, can we get this going like on. On Monday? We're like, oh, yeah.

**[16:41] SPEAKER_02:** But then imagine if we had Claude code. How far?

**[16:47] SPEAKER_00:** But the feeling, it was a funny thing between, like this tremendous urgency.

**[16:51] SPEAKER_01:** But then it.

**[16:52] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it. Real intensity coming out of these. These organizations. You know, there was excitement, there was fear. I remember at the. We had a meeting, this one. You weren't involved with York, but kind of similar feeling with different innovative big Latin bank, right. During the DAO hack. And like, we could talk about nothing but the DAO hack, even though we were kind of going through, talking about all the enterprise settlement use cases, you know, et cetera. But it's taken some time, right? And we had been, you know, Microsoft too, right. Us heavily on the consortium permission side, serving all manner of. And that's still there, but much less like the. The corporate energy has just shifted towards, like, can I use this in practice? Right. And you know, we've got multinationals moving pretty good volumes of stables around the world, you know, finally, right. It's gotten boring and it's gone from this, like, with the cloud, right. Like, I'll never put my data on someone else's computer. You know, it's. There's been a pretty strong acceptance of the kind of public chain format, I would say, with still context in which the enterprise won't put data out there. But it's, it's, you know, people act now as if like, of course it was always going to end up like the Internet and you know, everything would interconnect but, but really the customers would just absolutely refuse and demand the most lockdown flavor possible, you know, at that time. And yeah, and I think, you know,

**[18:29] SPEAKER_02:** it's certainly in the early days. Right. It's just to your point, like fear and unknown. Right. Which is very common. Right. In almost any innovation wave is like, how is this going to impact me? Do I, should I be paying attention to this? What, how is this different than how I think, you know, and I think frankly for engineers before the AI wave, this fusion of cryptography with digital value and coding together scared the living shit out of like traditional engineers. And a lot of traditional engineers who didn't go into finance made a choice not to go into finance because they didn't like the value thing. Right, yeah, right. And so all the, you know, you had a lot of engineering trepidation as well, in addition to just like conservative corporation trepidation. And so it was a lot, you know, I think what we, what we did and you know, whether it was right or wrong, I think what we were trying to do certainly from a philosophy perspective was it's an early market. We need to help people get comfortable with it. The only way they're going to do that is if they're not being exposed. Right. Essentially. And that was really, I think, the intent, at least from my perspective, in the early journey of trying to enable these cloud spin up in infrastructure long term. I was always a huge believer that the value case of distributed decentralized governance, censorship, resistance, credible neutrality were the thing that in the end would win. And I think that is what you see now with banking. Right. Where they're like, okay, well if I'm going to put my value somewhere, it has to have credible neutrality. Yep.

**[20:21] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. And you know, on that point, kind of thing is like, you know, there's been this, people are talking like rwas like a new thing, but really, you know, we were doing supply chain projects where we were tokenizing real world, real world assets. You know, back from the beginning. And York, I know you guys in the Microsoft cloud supply chain won a gold Alexander Hamilton treasury award for, for a project. I'm if you could talk a little bit about that project.

**[20:52] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, yeah, absolutely.

**[20:54] SPEAKER_01:** All the other blockchain enterprise projects that failed.

**[20:58] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. So this was a project that I started as a collaboration with the cloud hardware supply chain team in probably around 2017, 2018. And the theory was like, how do we get better traceability effectively in our high value assets in our cloud supply chains? And so we were. The early project essentially started with like nine key suppliers that were known suppliers. And so we brought them into essentially a distributed system on an Ethereum tech stack called Quorum, which was what the enterprise Ethereum alliance sort of started with as the, you know, as the preferred tech template.

**[21:50] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, I remember pointing. We put in a lot of work on that stack.

**[21:53] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. And so this project basically became a foundation for infrastructure in our supply chain. And the goal that was published in a Gartner Award that we also got for the same project earlier than the Alexander Hamilton treasury award was specifically, we believe that there was a $50 million ROI per year on getting better visibility to the data underlying all these assets. And before we even did that calculation, we started working with the Microsoft finance teams and treasury to basically get financial controls around what we were doing in the supply chain by leveraging the signal we were getting out of this blockchain infrastructure. And that gave us a wholly different roi, which was based on cost of capital. Because we had the signal from every transition point of these high value assets, we were able to actually transition to a just in time payment mechanism based on that signal. And that's where effectively the Alexander Hamilton Award came from. Because cost of capital on cloud infrastructure is very high. And I think the typical number that people use as a Swag is like 11% of capital. So if you can recover cash in hand on the types of volumes that you're doing in a cloud provider year over year, the cost of capital benefits are quite substantial.

**[23:36] SPEAKER_01:** That's amazing. And Karen, we worked on a bunch of really the first RWA tokenization projects too. How do you think that affected our product and how we had to evolve Strado to meet those needs?

**[23:52] SPEAKER_00:** Well, let me continue on memory lane for a little bit. I'm trying to remember exactly where this was. We went to something like Microsoft sales kickoff, talked about the BHB case.

**[24:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yep, yep.

**[24:05] SPEAKER_00:** I think it was in New York.

**[24:07] SPEAKER_01:** I think that was in. I think that was in Redmond, actually.

**[24:11] SPEAKER_00:** It could have been in red. We went. We've been what, four times to Redmond, something like that over the years? I can't quite recall.

**[24:17] SPEAKER_01:** Well, when I lived in Vancouver, I'd make that drive.

**[24:20] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, you would drive. It's easier and so I think for a little bit the, the BHP Billiton case was way out ahead. Right. So yeah, this was BHP Billiton often the world's largest mining company by market cap probably is right now but I haven't checked today.

**[24:37] SPEAKER_01:** We should say physical resources.

**[24:39] SPEAKER_00:** Physical mining. Yes, physical. They're not mining Bitcoin maybe a little bit now who knows. They have of course big commodity trading desks. So after this project I was told that everyone started buying and trading ethics. But so yeah we did deploy on Azure BHP being a big Azure customer and it was much earlier but much as York described a traceability mechanism for their core sampling. So basically when they drill into the earth they assess viability by sampling and that tells them where to invest. And these samples they go through like a pretty complex supply chain maybe not quite at a data center level. They, they go. It's a long lived asset that's very valuable, that touches lots of different parties and that's what you find.

**[25:29] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, like so just tune in billions of dollars valuable.

**[25:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, exactly.

**[25:33] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, exactly.

**[25:34] SPEAKER_00:** And so you know actually a bunch of people who worked on this went on to do NFTs. Right. So there were like the, you know there was the Trium and the Euler Beats project data consensus. The founders of Superrare were on our side working on that and then continued on into NFTs. We stayed sort of on the corporate side for a long time but continued to deploy very similar infrastructure in agriculture, oil and gas kind of, et cetera. But to my knowledge it really was the first, you know we're not banks moving know representation of dollars or eth around kind of use case. It, it was the first one that contemplated something physical at, at that scale. So yeah, and it, it's infused everything. I mean I think we still have in part even before we always had a. Okay, we know this tech is going to be big. How do we make it accessible? Who do we make it accessible to? You know like we had the thesis early on that businesses were going to be first and we were right in a way right. Early Internet, right. Who did really well, you know people sold databases to Internet companies, etc.

**[26:52] SPEAKER_02:** And I think one of the, one of the guys from BHP Billiton went, I think he started a gaming company also. I forgot his name I think.

**[27:01] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I'm blanking too. But yes, there was a whole, it really created a lot of that, that one big deployment. So yeah, so it's, it's. I mean this has always been our focus like you know the the rubber meeting the road on the technology where kind of normal people can get into it, touch it and feel it some. And so yeah, I mean we still do metals now, you know, and I guess this is after they've been mined and you know, focus.

**[27:29] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, we should talk about where you're getting your raw materials from.

**[27:32] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, exactly.

**[27:35] SPEAKER_00:** There's a lot of interest also in. Yeah, in like tokenized proved res curves. We haven't done anything with it yet, but I hear a lot in the market about it too, so. But yeah, it's been the thread the whole time. We've been kind of bridge builders focusing on adoption. How do we get this, the technology in the right hands in a tangible manner that people understand well.

**[27:57] SPEAKER_01:** And on that note, tokenized bonds are very exciting right now. York, you did one of the first big tokenized bond projects with the World bank blockchain bond. What did the team have to do to create that and be a first mover in that sort of area?

**[28:20] SPEAKER_02:** Great question. Just one second. So that project was very specifically done by the World bank from the World bank treasury specifically. So that was actually kind of a cool project to be able to work with the treasury of the World Bank. And the reason they did it was because they have a philosophy that they can catalyze the market. Right. And help the market understand that there's something interesting. And in this case it had to do with blockchain. That can be a value proposition down the road. Right. And obviously we're seeing that now right. From a financial markets perspective. And so they were working as the. Basically the way the World bank treasury works is they'll mandate a bond and they were working with Australia as a geography that had better regulatory posture. So they were very specific in terms of their work with Commerce bank of Australia. Commerce bank of Australia basically built the full tech stack on Google Cloud and World bank production cloud was Azure, Microsoft's cloud. And so they asked me to do two things. One, help them get a production implementation running on Microsoft cloud and two, do a full tech stack pen testing, security all the way down to the smart contract. So you know, it was probably one of the smart earliest smart contract audits as well, surprisingly. But basically I pulled in some security folks who knew how to do full tech stack, you know, infrastructure security testing, front end security testing. And then Kale actually did most of the smart contract auditing by hand. I think There are about 24 smart contracts in there. We were using open Zeppelin obviously and the. I think she was the treasurer of the World bank really amazing woman. She is now at Oxford University in the uk and she basically told the team, well, this was like, I think we started working with them in May. And she was like, well, we're going to go live in August, just so you're aware. And so it's basically like a sprint from whenever we started to essentially get to August 1st with confidence that we were going to be able to do this. And I actually had to teach one of the wonderful guys who actually took the lesson very well. I think his name was Peter, who was doing infrastructure work at the World Bank. And I was like, dude, you cannot deploy this manually. The world does not work that way. You want to be able to put it in a pipeline and have it redeployable. Redeployable. So I also taught them how to do full CICD pipelines so that they had a tech stack which they could tear down. Stand up.

**[31:22] SPEAKER_00:** Re.

**[31:22] SPEAKER_02:** Stand up. Right. Keep it working. So that was part of it as well, which was also, I guess, added bonus. But yeah, so I think it launched August 14th in 2018. It basically was an entire bond. The entire. It was a private blockchain built on an Ethereum stack, but it was distributed governance, obviously among the parties and as I mentioned, like 24 smart contracts that represented the entire bond. Right. And all of the positions on the bond, the investments, the sales and everything. It was all a essentially fully abstract digital asset. That was. If the blockchain went away, that was it. Right. It was gone. There was, There was no other record. There was a reference in Bloomberg terminals that it existed, but that you had to go to the ledger.

**[32:17] SPEAKER_01:** Right.

**[32:17] SPEAKER_02:** In order to the blockchain ledger, in order to see the details. Great project.

**[32:23] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I mean, but like all of those elements are still in play today. Right. So that's why.

**[32:28] SPEAKER_02:** Yes.

**[32:29] SPEAKER_01:** I think it's just exciting that, you know, we were, we were trying to figure out these early components and how to make it work. And, you know, we see them being reused in all kinds of different, different ways.

**[32:39] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. I mean, also the, you know, the funny thing is like, like you realized, you know, 2018 when they treasury was envisioning this with Commerce bank of Australia and we were envisioning it and we're signing up for this work. You know, you're like in a startup mode. You're like, yeah, I'll do it. Sounds great. Like you have like no idea, like what it's going to entail, but you're going to get there. Right.

**[33:07] SPEAKER_01:** I think that is the key element. Like you Know when you're doing something that is so blue sky, like, you know, it's like, well, I think we can do that, but not really sure.

**[33:18] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I think we can put a blockchain into production that has a hundred million dollar bond on it for the World Bank. Yeah, sure. In 2018. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

**[33:28] SPEAKER_00:** Well the funny thing, right, like there's such a big push, push to get it through once. And if you get it through once, you could probably do like a whole lot more too. Like on, on the back end, you just kind of hit the button a couple more times.

**[33:43] SPEAKER_01:** So. So Kieren, a lot of this enterprise work on the block app side we were talking about was done, you know, as that kind of company. And now our new, our new project is STRATO focused on defi for hard assets like precious metals. What was the thinking behind the evolution from the enterprise work to more of a defi hard asset platform?

**[34:05] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I was going to say there is actually a continuous thread. It kind of went in two phases. So there was our kind of corporate NFT ish consortium thread. You have interesting corporate assets moving across companies in a supply chain. Actually some digital or digital with a physical linkage, some you know, the majority physical, you know, with a serial number, that kind of thing. And we sort of realized, especially with, so with the pandemic, there was a big slowdown in innovative corporate efforts in it I would say, you know, it got very like people were scrambling to get Zoom set up and that kind of consumed all the oxygen for some time. And so there was a good maybe year there where everything was, you know, projects continued but were slowed. Then the market kind of came back some. But also I would say the, just the huge, you know, run up in like, you know, crypto asset values in early 2020s started to pull some of the oxygen out of the air. For instance, folks were like paying Starbucks to use their products, you know, at, in like reasonable amounts.

**[35:23] SPEAKER_02:** Right.

**[35:24] SPEAKER_00:** And so like the, the like let's you know, charge a bunch of people. Subscriptions for this consortium model got harder, you know, because everyone, everyone wanted to do the opposite. They wanted to pay the corporate so that the token would go up and so on.

**[35:38] SPEAKER_02:** So we, yeah, there was definitely a lot of like brand trading. Yes.

**[35:51] SPEAKER_00:** So the, so, so the first set continuity is like, okay, let's just focus on the assets. So maybe there was always also this problem of like, am I going to join your, your blockchain, you're going to join mine. They could do consortia together. But it was just A hard lot of setup, right? Like legal documents, they all to be kind of the same. You know, it's just, it was excruciating. So it's like okay, what if we just had the blockchain up? You know, how, how would that work? Right? And we did find. So we, we then just focused on asset tokenization still with the NFT flavor. So carbon offsets were very big. In fact you know all of those big corporates at that time, you know, in part there was you know, some top down pressure to do so were buying offsets kind of as just as part of their corporate citizenship. Folks like you know, blackrock were telling them to do it. The, the SEC strongly intimated that they should, you know, think about their footprint and all that sort of thing. All these things were much more intense in Europe but happened here also in the US So offsets were, were interesting and you know we followed there was that, that kind of. There was a big wave. Some of it's surviving today but you know, like collectibles, Pokemon cards, you know, we did actually a lot of collectible shoes. We had a fair amount of volume and collectible shoes and we kind of precious metals we sort of stumbled upon. It was just an idea and it really worked well. You know, so there was a lot of demand for precious metals. And at first know we thought people would want to buy and sell them and they do, but what they really want is credit against them. So so we kind of bolted that on our more NFT flavor of our product. But it, you know it was not perfectly smooth and we spent then the better part of the year kind of replatforming to the more defi native flavor. So and it's, it's really worked that the deposits are kind of going up and if you think about it right the just the, the set of collateral assets in the real world is just much larger than what exists on chain. People have been saying this for a long time and the question is, you know, will they come on chain? And you know, why and how? And I think the answer is actually the machinery of defi or some, some version of it is really magical, right? You can just create value not from nothing but from you know like MakerDAO invented the idea you put some Ethan and you can borrow a synthetic dollar against it quickly, no questions asked, modest interest rate. And if you set things up the right way, it really behaves like a dollar. That's, that's kind of amazing if you take that insight and you kind of carry it through okay, like what about Treasuries? Right, that's what Circle and Tether really do. They're tokenized Treasuries. They just don't, you know, the user doesn't hold the Treasuries directly and therefore doesn't get the yield. What about other assets? And so great business.

**[39:03] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah.

**[39:06] SPEAKER_00:** Some are hard, like, if they're very unique, like homes, it's a little challenging, you have to assess them. But gold and silver, you know, they've been money for as long as there's been money. So it's been kind of like a real winner for us. And we do lots of other stuff too. So we have some of the X stocks now owned by Kraken. They're the tokenizer on the platform. Take eth, we'll take, you know, Defi native Bitcoin. It's really any good liquid asset that you want to keep, we extend credit against. And this has been, you know, there's just tremendous demand for this. So, you know, kind of a meandering journey. But again, the whole time just like, what are people going to use? What do they want really?

**[39:53] SPEAKER_01:** Exactly. Well, and on that note, like, I want to just touch base, like, you know, we've talked a lot about the historical perspective, but what, what is exciting you most about the future of the blockchain space? York, I know you're working on X4 too, you know, bringing together AI and crypto. Like, you know, what are the most exciting things? You think developments are happening in the blockchain crypto space now?

**[40:19] SPEAKER_02:** Well, I think so. First of all, I think what's amazing about the crypto community is they lean into risk. Right. And lean into innovation. Right. And so it's not surprising to me at all that like people have been thinking that, you know, this community has been working with things like openclaw and, you know, all of the variants of that. And also I don't have any real data, but it feels like it's a natural thing for people to be leaning into this innovation wave of AI and agents. I think the X4.2 foundation, being in the Linux foundation was really smart because it's a great place to have that sort of neutrality around the software stack. We've seen that with a number of the other stacks in the Linux foundation, like Besu, for example. And you know, that was really, to me, it was an inflection point of a lot of different standards, quote unquote, standards forming, right? From if you think about like, what were the standards in the AI space, we really started with mcps Right. Then you started with the commerce protocols like Google's commerce protocol, which wasn't, you know, necessarily, it was really aligned to how Google thinks about commerce. Not a bad protocol, but another protocol. And then you had MPP, which does something different in X402, but an A2A. Right. So there's all of a sudden this proliferation of what seems like a bit of a spaghetti against the wall standards in both the commerce space and the AI space, some of which are really valuable. Like obviously MCP is extremely valuable in terms of the utility that it provides. And then X 402 is a natural connection point between digital payment mechanisms. Right. Stablecoins and crypto and can support legacy payment vehicles if there's a way to do that in a cost effective non human intervention way. And to me that's an exciting moment because I think it's also sort of foretelling the. And there's quite a few people who are writing about this, including, I don't know if you watch the Nate B. Jones podcast sometimes, you know, he's clearly recognized that, you know, this agentic wave is, you know, is the thing and that agents that are autonomous need a mechanism to pay for things. Right. And how does that happen? Right. And so I think one of the things that he calls out, actually quite interestingly in a recent podcast that he did in the last month, specific to this, is that if you look at the companies that sort of independently had this realization, it's a combination of Cloudflare, Google, Coinbase. Right. And all of them, you know, were sort of independently racing towards the same place. Not surprisingly, Cloudflare and Coinbase are part of the X402 foundation as well, as well as Google, actually, and Microsoft and Amazon, logically. Yeah. I mean, that to me, that's exciting. AI in general is exciting. I mean, I've been coding for the first time in a long time and that is like, you know, I feel like I'm in the beginning of my career again.

**[43:46] SPEAKER_00:** Right.

**[43:46] SPEAKER_02:** That's just where we are. Right. It's like this fascinating unlock for people who have knowledge of how to build and ideas and now have this tool that gives you this unlimited resource. Right. In some ways. Right. It's just an amazing time to be in the market.

**[44:06] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. And Kieren, what are you excited about? Future ones?

**[44:10] SPEAKER_00:** Oh, man. Well, let me, let me touch quickly on York's comment. I'll bring it home. So one thing that's very interesting about agents, especially the latest models and good harnesses, they have this way of Routing through like I give the agent a goal, you know in it Sometimes you find it like go in there and start editing config files and you know, yada yada yada and you kind of turn around and you're like whoa, whoa, whoa. That wasn't quite what I intended. You did. They didn't need to log in as root and you know, figure they have this way of bringing breaking containment a little bit. Right? Yeah. And they still have a hard time with captchas. I'm sure they're going to get there but you know, so I sometimes I have my open claw. It sends some emails for me from time to time. It has a very low limit credit card believe it or not. But the, the Internet has been set up to be very bot unfriendly and now we may want the Internet to be somewhat bot friendly and so yeah, crypto just works now you can get through things like in fact websites should just start taking like you know, couple of fractions of a penny in stables instead of requiring that captcha if they don't want to be DDoS, you know and I think we'll see something like that.

**[45:33] SPEAKER_02:** Right.

**[45:33] SPEAKER_00:** Like the it is this, you know there's this tremendous once in a while I do pilot our product like move money with, with agents. I don't do it often. You know, I give them temporary credentials and so on. But it's, it's the. One of the altogether strangest times in history. Maybe the strangest and you know, very exciting but you know, bringing it back to us there we're, we're getting to feel like you know, a few years ago there was, you know, true believers and you know, hope and we're all in this together. And now it's getting to be like a competitive, mature industry that's serious. And I think we still have you know, 10 or 100x adoption to go from here. Maybe not. You know, I'm not speaking about market caps and prices and all that sort of thing and this is maybe the good part. There's, there's a lot of fun from the, the early days but there's a whole lot ahead of us. I remember in the York you were oppression in 2014, 2015 when we first started circling and 2015 when we started going. We thought we were too late. You know, probably a lot more ahead.

**[46:52] SPEAKER_02:** No, no, I agree with you. Like this is an exciting time. I think the Internet's changing and this technology is at a really interesting inflection point in that happening. So yeah, it may get a little more boring, but I think it's actually just start of the boring.

**[47:15] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. On that note, and on behalf of the community, I want to thank you for both, for continuing to build and drive these efforts. I think like having the front row seat. I know how hard it's been to get to where we're at and like you said, there's still a long way to go. Where can we find out about your work and what you're doing? York, where. Where can we learn about all the interesting things you're working on?

**[47:39] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I mean I would say I've been posting more deliberately on LinkedIn than others, but I also post on. On X still under York Roads and you know, you the only. You'll see me there. Right. York roads and on LinkedIn the same thing. Although just make sure it's the third because my son is in the industry as well.

**[48:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. And Karen, where can people find out about all the things you're doing?

**[48:09] SPEAKER_00:** Yep. So STRATO Nexus for the project appst. STRATO Nexus for. For the app. And I'm Kjames Lubin. Twitter, probably a most active little bit of LinkedIn. We have a telegram too that folks can join.

**[48:25] SPEAKER_01:** Okay, well, thank you very much for joining you and I know we're overtime already, but thank you for your time today.

**[48:31] SPEAKER_00:** Great to see you virtually York. See you soon, I hope.

