**[00:01] SPEAKER_03:** So, hello and welcome to Early Days of Ethereum. I am here recording for Early Days of Ethereum with Péter Szilágyi. How do you pronounce your name?

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Péter Szilágyi, but people call me Karalabe.

**[00:44] SPEAKER_03:** You've been at the Ethereum Foundation for a very long time, but what were you doing before you started at the Foundation? What was your background? How did you find your way into the blockchain world?

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** Before Ethereum, I was working on really different types of projects. I started at a Hungarian software company, a classic software company. We actually sold software in boxes, like floppy disks put in a box on a shelf, and you can buy the software. It was mostly CDs by 1997, but we still used a lot of floppies. At that company, I did things related to computer graphics, like bringing a ray tracing engine for some architectural software. I also did a lot of work on electronic circuit simulation and circuit design.

It was around 2011 when I first heard about Bitcoin, and around 2012 when I started to realize that, as weird as it sounds, it really is probably a big thing. I first heard about Ethereum early 2014, a few months after the initial paper was published. I started contributing around November and officially joined the Ethereum Foundation in March 2015.

**[03:02] SPEAKER_03:** Did you hear about it through Danny Ryan or Viktor Trón, or some other way?

**[03:10] SPEAKER_01:** I heard about it from Danny Ryan and Viktor Trón's friend circle. Viktor was already working on it, and he came to Hungary and said he was working on this. I started explaining to him why this thing probably will never work, and he said, "Okay, you seem to have a good understanding of this. Why don't you come to work?"

**[03:52] SPEAKER_03:** Right. And was it Swarm that you started with?

**[03:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, Swarm was part of the initial trinity of base technologies of Ethereum. It was supposed to be the storage layer for dApps. I brought the first 500 lines of Swarm.

**[05:02] SPEAKER_03:** I think Viktor mentioned around May 2014 that the trinity concept was first presented—Ethereum as your expensive database, Swarm as your decentralized storage, and Whisper as your messaging. There's that famous diagram with the circle and things coming in and Whisper going around the edge. But yeah, I guess it was Devcon 0 where Danny really presented a fleshed-out vision of decentralized storage.

**[05:51] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, that's correct. I wasn't there at Devcon 0 yet, so I heard about this idea even before I heard about Ethereum. Danny already told me about this idea that he wants to do this kind of hash-based chunk storage. It made total sense that he just pitched that that can fit in. It was a perfect fit at the time. He pitched this idea at Devcon 0, and when they accepted it and hired Danny, Danny called me and said, "Let's do it together." So you were hired.

**[06:40] SPEAKER_03:** Into the Ethereum Foundation. Yes, I did have a date for that. I've forgotten, I guess it was shortly after Devcon 0, right? That you started there?

**[07:07] SPEAKER_01:** Correct.

**[07:07] SPEAKER_03:** Did you go to Berlin or Amsterdam? When did you first meet other people? How did it was?

**[07:24] SPEAKER_01:** I met Jeffrey Wilcke, the creator of Go Ethereum, and the Go Ethereum team in Amsterdam in February 2015. I already had these contributions to Swarm, and it was kind of an implied thing that maybe I might be hired. There was really no official hiring process back then. Jeff was this really laid-back guy, and he just said, "Okay, okay, man, I saw your contributions. Let's talk sometime this week." I waited the whole week for some serious interview, but by the end of the week, Jeff just said, "Oh, yeah, when I wanted to talk to you, you're hired."

**[08:47] SPEAKER_03:** Okay, that's a good talk. So, yeah, this is how the hiring process went back then. Excellent. Well, that's easy. We like that. And uh, so you, that was before you went to Amsterdam, I assume. I assume you went to Amsterdam after you had been hired.

**[09:07] SPEAKER_01:** No, no, no. It happened in Amsterdam.

**[09:07] SPEAKER_03:** Oh, you were there unhired on site.

**[09:29] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I was unhired on site. I bought my own plane ticket, but I could stay at the Airbnb where the whole team stayed. I showed my contributions, and yeah, so I went to Amsterdam unhired but yeah.

**[09:35] SPEAKER_03:** Right. That plane ticket was a good investment. So, yeah, um, so did they not have office space at that point even?

**[09:35] SPEAKER_01:** Well, they did. Back then, there was an Amsterdam office, mostly for Jeff because Jeff lived in Amsterdam. But when Jeff left, or maybe before that, I'm not sure exactly, but this office was closed. It was a really small office. Last time I checked, it doesn't exist but it was really just a small, small place. But I later went to Berlin a lot after I was hired, and for the Go Ethereum team, it was really centered in Berlin somehow.

**[10:27] SPEAKER_03:** Right, right. Because yeah, I mean, I guess as well as Jeff, you've got Kieren James-Lubin.

**[10:41] SPEAKER_01:** Kieren was there for a short time, relatively short time, and Jeffrey also left after a while and started his own company.

**[10:57] SPEAKER_03:** Right. Do you know anything about EF Labs because when Jeff worked with JP Morgan to do Quorum, that was announced under the label EF Labs. Never heard of that.

**[11:20] SPEAKER_01:** I think I heard the name, but I didn't really know what it does. I knew that Jeff started working with JP Morgan back then, and then in that time, big banks really wanted to learn about the technology. Yeah, so Jeff went to work on Quorum for a while. True, yeah, I mean, I guess it was a little bit like Ethosphere, just sort of being a name, a banner for activities rather than a legal entity. And another thing I don't know there but I suspect is I don't think Jeff told Ming that he was doing that stuff with JP Morgan. I suspect that he completely just did that on his own without any communication with Ming or with the EF. It's just.

**[12:34] SPEAKER_01:** Well, actually, he never really told a lot to us about that. We knew that yeah, he's working with JP Morgan, but probably like it's a big bank, probably he had to sign a non-disclosure agreement, so just he probably couldn't share all the details. I remember at some point, him saying he found it interesting because the consensus for that was on-chain. The consensus for that was happening as smart contracts, so it was kind of almost like this pluggable consensus but consensus pulled up. You know, into the app layer. He found that quite interesting that the initial called Quorum consensus. It didn't last long, but I think Gav also was doing that sort of stuff on the C++ side. He did some proof of authority stuff before that happened on the Go Ethereum side, before Clique. He actually made a different C++ client called Fluidity, which was like pulling all the libraries in the same but it was with a proof of authority consensus. He did that was one of the last things he did before he went out to Parity. Both him and Jeff were interested in that thought of well, how can you formulate these pieces in different ways right for those kind of use cases. Interesting but yeah, he he he he left.

**[14:44] SPEAKER_01:** I think it was probably very early in 2017. I did find a period but it was certainly ahead of Devcon 3. I think I got that from GitHub. I think that was like his final commit, but he probably tailed off. Yeah, he already started focusing on other stuff like this Quorum stuff and then his own things sometime in 16. So yeah, he started a company called Grid Games with his brother, just building a particular game, but that also seems to have ceased. So yeah, he's unknown off in the world somewhere. Yeah, that's pretty much all I know about him. We try to invite him a few times to just come to some event and meet up, but yeah, I think for some reasons he really had enough of maybe not us but things going on in the EF.

**[16:09] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I mean yeah, I think that would be the case that you had the crowd sale in July, August, September 2014, but coming up to the mainnet release a year later, nearly all the money was gone. Yes, they spent it very fast. Yeah, so that Devcon 1 was postponed because of that. Yeah, and but we didn't really feel a lot of this actually. Jeff just said that now that Ether price is so low, actually, I think the lower point was 42 cents. Yeah, and for a full year, it didn't really move. Jeff just said that okay, we all have to take a payment card, but the payment card was really just 10 percent. I think maybe he took a bigger one. So yeah, yeah, for us it was really not that bad. The idea was that when Ether price reaches two dollars, then yeah, we do have some go back, some money to go forward. So yeah, then our salaries went back. That wasn't a lot of time, so yeah, actually for me, I don't really remember the price history, and maybe it's not the most important thing. Enterprise reached something like 10 dollars pretty soon, like in the start of 2016. Yeah, and we went even a little bit higher, but then we had the DAO fork and the Shanghai attacks. Well, given how turbulent those times were, the markets held up pretty well. So yeah, yeah, and with 10 Ether, we could survive further. Yeah.

**[18:18] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I mean that was quite a jump up. I heard that at the worst point, there was only four months of runway left. You know, that was how close it was to running out of money. But yeah, there were those big cuts which really resulted in like Gavin Wood and the C++ team were the main kind of victims of those cuts. But then yeah, just into 2016. Pardon me, so I was hired in February 2016, the same time as Greg Colvin came in, and also Pavel was rehired. He was working through IMAP on that JIT, but then that contract stopped. Then he came back at that time as well. So it was this period through late 2015 to early 2016 was like you know, the absolute bottom of like are we even going to ship this thing? Are we going to run out of money before we get to mainnet? But then yeah, some of us were really coming in as backfill for that C++ team. Yeah, so I mean Devcon 1 sort of, you were mentioning in that series that had got canceled, but then Consensus came in and actually paid for that and said, "Hey, we'll mainly organize it and kind of so that the thing can happen." So that was the big, you know, the first public event. So what were your memories of Devcon 1?

**[19:55] SPEAKER_01:** My subjective impression was that it's really amazing. Compared to today's Devcons, it was small, I think three hundred something people, maybe less than a thousand. I'm not sure, but it was in a really prestigious venue, some old bank building or Threadneedle Street, yeah, like City of London. I really felt like okay, so now this is really a serious thing. Probably that was the reason why Consensus stepped in and funded the event so we really could step up in terms of like public appearance and appear as something really serious. Yeah, I remember like all the big banks having a presence like the booth at Devcon 1. Right, yeah, so yeah, and then Microsoft is headline sponsor. It's like wow, right? Like recognition, right? That you, you, you're like wow, Microsoft are interested and supportive.

**[20:59] SPEAKER_03:** Um, yeah, I mean I think for a lot of people it was a real kind of wow, like this is for real. You know, sadly, I could not afford to go. I was not quite in and working yet. I was an enthusiastic contributor, but yeah, so actually it was also like the first time for me when I met a larger number of Ethereum people right. Yeah, I first met the Go Ethereum team in early 15 and yeah, I went to Amsterdam one more time. I think in May, but Devcon 1 was the place where I really like realized that how big this thing this thing is and it's really not just about like client developers, but also like even back then people presented about formal verification and all this stuff. So yeah, I realized that it is this is really big and probably everyone wants to be a part of it.

**[22:20] SPEAKER_03:** At least a little bit. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean looking back at Devcon 1 videos, it's like everything, like any kind of use case you could think of. You know, this so so early, more than 10 years ago, but you know, many many concepts which were probably like massively too early to do, but maybe you can do them all now seem to be presented. You had Nick Szabo as well. Nick Szabo doing a keynote. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Nick Szabo was also there. So was that maybe the first time that you'd met a number of the people in Berlin like Christoph Jentzsch and Left?

**[23:00] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe the first time that I'd met a number of the people in Berlin like Christoph Jentzsch and Left.

**[23:24] SPEAKER_03:** No, so was that, was Devcon 1 the first time that you'd been to to do Ethereum things in London or did you did you go to any sort of London meetups or meet any of those comms people earlier?

**[23:39] SPEAKER_01:** I didn't go to any meetups in London before, but actually I did go to London around the time. I was still working there right and after that yeah I met up with Viktor and talked about things because he was in London at the time and I was I went to London around the time. We we we went to London to to like like like like like sell our software and everything so I was still working there right and after that yeah I met up with Viktor and talked about things because yeah he he had seen Gav talk in London in very very early February. I think it was February the 6th so almost immediately after they'd had the Miami like you know BTC Miami launch and the you know Anthony Di Iorio's like mansion where they you know a lot of them met for the first time. Gav had been back in London. I think it was like a week a week after and did a talk there that Viktor had gone to. That was Viktor's first in-person meeting with any of these and then Gav had pulled him on board yeah so those are like the very very early days. I wasn't there so when I first heard about Ethereum that was uh I think March or April 14 so I first heard about the pre-sale and yeah like that's yeah that's that's that's where I first heard about this thing but yeah I know that uh Gavin was like one of the very early founders of this and and he wrote the the uh yellow paper yeah full of Greek letters yes.

**[25:51] SPEAKER_03:** Very confusing yeah and and the C++ client of course um so the the first time I think I saw your name or was in contact with you was was about light client uh because you know I'd I'd been trying to get Ethereum ARM Linux cross builds running on my smartwatch um and my thought there was get the thing running and then this light client stuff is just kind of starting and you know like scaling will be solved right we're going to be able to like run these nodes on anything you know you'll have them on your phone smartwatch router they'll be in every operating system you know it's just we'll solve that that that scaling and that lightness so you you were plunged right into that problem right?

**[26:38] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah so when Jeff hired me actually uh he he he put me on this he has put me on this project so so he he just said that uh okay uh it's great that i contributed to swarm but i i i if if if i joined the get team i i will have to uh start working on that on the light client because it's a very important thing and it hasn't been started yet yeah so yeah i i felt really good about it like yeah i i i i also felt like this is this is a big thing and yeah back then it really felt like uh we do these few things we have a working light client protocol and and and and the the whole eternity of of like a base layer and then we're all good yeah but it wasn't that easy but still those were the first steps and uh so so i designed the LES protocol yeah uh in retrospect it didn't make a lot of sense to uh design to to build it over the dev p2p layer right because yeah like it wasn't easy to access from web browsers and stuff but also also it was it was a proof of work based light client and right so yeah that that project ended after a while but uh i'm still uh very much into like uh trustless chain access so that's that has usually been one of my focuses all the time so right now i'm also working on on an uh something called the trustless execution real uh execution layer api right which uh is similar to the beacon beacon rest api uh but uh works on the execution layer and and and provides everything with proofs so yeah i i'm still very much into this because i think this is where it really makes sense if even normal users access thing access chain data with proofs.

**[28:36] SPEAKER_03:** Right right and there was a project called Portal as well were you involved with Portal that was a later?

**[28:42] SPEAKER_01:** No I wasn't uh so Portal was a uh Piper Merriam's brainchild and uh yeah so uh so by the time uh we kind of realized that uh LES was a nice first experiment but maybe not the best approach uh he he started uh like something different that was a udp based and and and also like use different topologies so it uh it was kind of a dhd uh approach to storing the chain and the state and yeah actually uh i'm kind of uh like i i i think it's it's a bad thing that uh it's been completely canceled because uh well actually to be honest i never really believed that uh that it will be a easily solvable problem to store the merkle patricia trie of the state right on the dhd but for the chain data yeah it made perfect sense so yeah uh maybe maybe the state would have been possible with a lot of work but yeah i mean Piper told me a few times about how he imagines the order to solve all the uh unsolvable problems and i felt like yeah it sounds good but he just made a lot of uh really hard assumptions about dhd is that i by the time i i already worked on discovery v5 so there was also this discovery protocol that uh uh basically we designed it in uh 2016 in berlin with Felix and uh i released the original version and um yeah so so i already knew that uh yeah it's it's never so easy to imagine like a dhd that's that's efficiently formed that all the nodes are working and yeah like this uh so but but for the for the for the chain data right especially uh with eip444 so like like uh that uh lets the main protocol the nodes processing main protocol uh forget the all chain history right so it it it made perfect sense to at least uh put the chain history on a dhd yeah but uh yeah so it was an ef decision that it was discontinued uh uh at points well i mean i guess the thing is.

**[31:06] SPEAKER_03:** You know Patricia Merkle trees are not great for you know the number of accesses and things anyway let alone if you're making each of those steps over a networked you know uh dhd kind of setup that's yeah there's a lot of it's so much transactional change yeah complexity state three suffers from a.

**[31:32] SPEAKER_01:** Lot of issues especially in america patricia state three yeah and yeah it's it's it's a huge data set that uh keeps changing all the time and keeps changing it's completely random places yeah and it's it's it's not as easy it is task to distribute it right so actually it's uh it's it's getting harder to even synchronize it between the full most or in the entire state yeah yeah so yeah.

**[31:59] SPEAKER_03:** So um do you do you think that proofs are going to be a magic you know magic silver bullet here where uh by uh by by by having you know local proofs versus you know uh massive really redundant state machines do you think do you think there's a path here where oh oh yeah no it's not a silver bullet so.

**[32:24] SPEAKER_01:** Uh so uh i assume you mean what people call statelessness uh so it it allows uh definitely allows a higher degree of scanning but the state tree still has to be processed and maintained by someone and especially if most of the most of the nodes have no incentive to to process it yeah and uh and it and yeah now we are talking about a hundred decks and thousand x scaling then uh then then even even if we also do uh state expiry which is currently imagined in a way that we basically reset the state tree every year or something and yeah and have multiple state trees so yeah that has somewhat but if we scale a thousand x then it will be a huge infrastructural centralization issue right and uh yeah by the way i i i i this this this thing is is is not an unsolvable problem i mean i mean the the the state as it works today yeah unfortunately somehow makes it really hard to do any fundamental improvements over these properties but uh people are considering uh uh like uh different storage architectures yeah of course we have to keep the existing contracts workable because that was our like main promise from the beginning right but we will not just shut down anything yeah everything has 100 uptime but uh it is so it is it is it is it is a viable way to uh come up with the more efficient storage methods and use it as an opt-in alternative that will over time be available for much less and new contracts can be designed using those more efficient uh storage.

**[34:26] SPEAKER_03:** Architectures yeah because vertical trees seem to be the first sort of thought on that but then those yeah that's kind of come and gone and maybe it's a binary tree or actually it does either.

**[34:40] SPEAKER_01:** Uh uh so important either i mean i mean i mean uh both are better than the merkel patricia tree yeah but uh in some ways but uh they don't solve this fundamental issue by themselves so still the thing is that the state is a permanent key value store uh and uh in order to uh avoid it growing forever uh yeah there's all these these ideas about uh state expiry but still it's it's it's it's it's it's it's going to be a huge data set and uh and the method of hashing or or like uh consensus represent protocol representation uh doesn't fundamentally change this so vertical uh was supposed to provide more efficient marker proofs but also i guess somewhat more expensive state processing because it's like more expensive cryptography right also uh if i'm correct it's not quantum secure so right right and that was also a thing that where i i always felt like yeah i'm not sure if it's a good idea to start working from now and i just saw it in front of my eyes how it's going to be cancelled and um yeah so yeah i mean uh i guess.

**[36:04] SPEAKER_03:** For running nodes in general you know there's not a lot of incentive for people to run any kind of like node software themselves unless they are you know a validator or you know you're running an exchange or a business and you you know you need your you know back end to that uh you know i guess the the vision of that there was at the start of like well yeah everyone will be running their own node and you you so you've got mist on top of it and you know it's it's local apps you know and then that that can have swarmed for the smart contracts and you know you it's almost like you won't have server architecture because everyone's running a server stack and then yeah that that did not happen.

**[36:47] SPEAKER_01:** Actually actually that's so that's why uh we are also stuck with the with the json rpc api which doesn't provide proofs except for it get proofs but doesn't provide proofs for a lot of things because um because it was never meant to be used remotely it was always imagined that yeah it's used locally in a trusted setup on your own machine and yeah and yeah i remember all those good old days when i just uh synced up a full node it was a few gigabytes of this space and ran mist on top of it and yeah and yeah i remember all those good old days when i just uh synced up a full node it was a few gigabytes of this space and ran mist on top of it and yeah all the it's magic but uh yeah unfortunately uh it didn't scale so no no at the uh museum of.

**[37:29] SPEAKER_03:** Ethereum here i i i've got uh laptops uh running geth 1.36 so home homestead geth and i uh i i mind homestead back to life so um you know any any hard fork that happens the other the old one doesn't go away right it doesn't disappear it's just people don't associate any economic value with it and it kind of gets abandoned but yeah what i've done is is first gpu and then down to cpu mind that homestead difficulty down to the level that you can cpu mine it again so i do i have i have i have got mist running on those so we can go we can go and transact we can send a transaction between those and and it should be possible to uh to run aleth0 and aleth1 and mix on that as well i haven't had time to do that but and and you know erc20 tokens existed you know you could have have dow tokens or mist coin yeah at that time but uh yeah the the the assumption that people would run their own node and it would all be you know self-sovereign local apps certainly uh did not come to fruition well yeah that's when the.

**[38:56] SPEAKER_01:** Light client came in and then we assumed that okay then we do the light client and yeah it will be all solved that's it yeah that's what i was thinking is like right i've got i've got a full node running on my smartwatch that works and i'll just wait for for you and the other guys to you know sort out.

**[39:00] SPEAKER_03:** Light client and just turn that on and there we go well actually the light client protocol worked fine it's just uh yeah i i spent like a really crazy amount of uh time figuring out uh how it could be decent uh like like incentivized in a truly decentralized way because uh yeah i i remember this uh there was this idealism that that uh yeah now now we are almost done with everything so we just have to find a real proper way for incentivizing things but not in a way that there's a few companies where you can buy like tokens but truly in a decentralized way which is much harder because yeah then we have to somehow this build decentralized trust and and and figure out market mechanisms that work without initial trust so yeah uh this is something i spent years with and honestly i think i came up with some nice theoretical models and a lot of really complex code but uh yeah it's just uh again was like the wrong approach maybe also at the wrong time so we were just not there really yeah because i mean.

**[40:29] SPEAKER_03:** Bit torrent has obviously worked for distributing uh content for many many years but then you you do have this tragedy of the commons right is uh yes the latest hollywood movie someone has ripped it off and people want that so that's going to get shared around no problem but things which are only of interest to a smaller number of people without incentives it's just a a leeching problem right you kind of good good full node runners would would contribute you know they'll turn on the les as well right they would help supply that but the incentives and economics are that uh not easy yeah actually with bitter end it.

**[41:16] SPEAKER_01:** Also uh usually if you really want to use it it requires trackers that where you buy some some some some some priority access so right there are these these these private trackers and everything yeah so yeah uh uh and and those are this is also like not uh completely decentralized but actually it does work so it's it's it's definitely better than nothing but uh for for alias it wasn't really this easy because this whole service was uh like uh downloading movies was was an application that everyone understood that everybody used and uh somehow with ethereum it was always this yeah everyone felt the importance but if you're nowhere near close to like like like a really mature ecosystem and uh and so so it was just i don't think there would have been a big enough market really for these services to so that to really work out in a market-based way yeah but uh as we as a scale and uh accessing the whole dataset is uh becomes more and more difficult at a certain point i think we are going to have something like reimagined several years ago so yeah it's it's just uh both like timing and specifics yeah i was i was i was right about everything except timing and specifics yeah yes yes yeah uh i mean there's a number of.

**[42:51] SPEAKER_03:** Things that that seemed like they would be easy and quick and obvious and have taken so many years i mean like like proof of stake you know the it was in the white paper there was an assumption you know later in 2015 that'll happen you know within six months maybe three six months um and then it's it's eight years before you know it actually went live and uh and yeah i mean on storage so filecoin their first white paper was in 2014 as well you know filecoin was not a a new thing um and ipfs was around before ethereum as well um but uh and then yeah whisper kind of went for a while and then now there's there's there's um and and and you'd have you've had status driving a lot of those texts for a lot of those years as well you know jared hope and team uh who were also doing uh android version of the the java client you know the same kind of time as i was looking at smart watches you yeah jared hope was also very.

**[44:06] SPEAKER_01:** Eagerly waiting for for for like the fully functional like client yeah yeah yeah well.

**[44:12] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah because you know they were building kind of decentralized we work you know super app but i i guess you know kind of a competitor to to mist really similar kind of thing you know wanting to have a uh you know a container for running uh daps in sitting on top of a local client again you know having this completely self-sovereign kind of server app stack but not not easy and i can't remember who it was that was telling me that so when they first saw metamask uh which was at devcom one that was one of the grantee winners was was metamask them thinking no we that's not what we want we we don't want like you know some browser extension thing talking to a trusted endpoint like that's absolutely the opposite like what what are these guys doing and then that's you know that's become the standard flow right well yeah so.

**[45:18] SPEAKER_01:** Uh this is this is still kind of an unsolved problem to right to to access access uh everything in a truly decentralized way but uh i think we are getting there over time it's just yeah nothing nothing is as simple as we initially imagined and also uh there's a time for everything and i think uh uh through uh through decentralized uh uh infrastructure will be forced by scaling and things sometimes just doesn't happen if they are not forced by some some some uh circumstance some fact some external factor so yeah as long as it's the late it works in a lazy way to just uh yeah connect metamask to infura yeah until then it's it's the standard way yeah yeah so i i think.

**[46:15] SPEAKER_03:** I found two different talks of yours at