**[00:01] SPEAKER_03:** So hello and welcome to DevCon Denver 2026. So here recording for Early Days of Ethereum with Zolt Felfoldi. How do you pronounce your name? Zolt? Zolt? There you go. Anyway, so yeah, I was working out when we were recently reconnected at DevConnect, and I was working out that you're the third longest person at the Ethereum Foundation right, that you've got Vitalik and then then you.

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Felix and then you. Yeah, I haven't really checked this fact yet, but honestly, yeah.

**[00:44] SPEAKER_03:** Sounds great. That's it. So I mean, you're a very long-time member of the Geth team, yes. But what were you doing before you started at the Foundation? What was your background? How did you find your way into the blockchain world?

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** Before so before Ethereum, I was working on really different types of projects. So I first started at a Hungarian software company, like really classic software company. We actually sold software in boxes, like put on a shelf, discs, like yeah, like floppy disks, put in a box on a shelf, and you can buy the software. So like this type of classic software, five and a quarter inch floppies. Yeah, yeah, actually three and a half was, oh okay, three and a half, we're on to modern floppies. Yeah, but maybe also in 1997, so maybe I was exaggerating a little. So by that time, it was mostly mostly CDs, we still used a lot of floppies anyway. So those, at that company, I did things related to first computer graphics. I brought a ray tracing engine for some architectural software, and then I also did a lot of work on electronic circuit simulation and circuit design. Right, so yeah, really different things. And it was around 2011 when I first heard about Bitcoin, right, and around 2012 when I started to realize that as weird as it sounds, it really is probably a big thing. And yeah, so I first heard about Ethereum early 2014, a few months after the initial paper has been published. Yeah, and started contributing I think around November, and officially joined EF in March 2015.

**[03:02] SPEAKER_03:** So yeah. And did you hear about it through Danny and Victor or some other way?

**[03:10] SPEAKER_01:** Well, I did hear about it from Danny and Victor's friend circle. So right, yeah. But Victor was already actually, I didn't know Victor before. So I heard about this thing through one of his friends, and then Victor was also in that wider circle, and he came to Hungary and said, oh, I'm already working on this. And then I started with my ideas and started to explain to him why this thing probably will never work. And he was like, okay, you seem to have a good understanding of this, why don't you come to work?

**[03:52] SPEAKER_03:** Right, right, right. So yeah. And am I right in thinking that you said it was Swarm that you started with?

**[03:59] SPEAKER_01:** Well, yeah. So Swarm was part of this initial trinity of base technologies of Ethereum. It was supposed to be the storage layer for dApps. I mean, it was kind of a naive way of how people imagined decentralized applications back then, but honestly, it made sense at the time. So I will say that nothing ever turned out exactly the way that people imagined it, but we are still making a lot of progress. So yeah, Swarm was how we initially imagined the storage layer for Ethereum. And this project still has merits, but yeah, this whole problem space is just a bit more complex. Yeah, yeah. So I started contributing to Swarm first, and actually I brought the first like 500 lines.

**[05:02] SPEAKER_03:** Of Swarm. There you go. I mean, I think if I remember rightly that Victor mentioned around May 2014 was when he first heard, you know, that the trinity, this concept that you could have Ethereum as your compute, an expensive database, Swarm as your decentralized storage, and then Whisper as your messaging. There's that famous diagram, right, with the circle and the things coming in and Whisper going around the edge. And there's another one of those. But yeah, I mean, I guess it was Devcon Zero where Danny really presented a fleshed-out vision of what that decentralized storage was.

**[05:51] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, that's correct. I wasn't there at Devcon Zero yet, so I heard about this idea even before I heard about Ethereum. Danny already told me about this idea that he wants to do this kind of hash-based chunk storage. And yeah, it made total sense that he just pitched that it can fit in. Yeah, yeah, at the time, it was a perfect fit. So he pitched this idea at Devcon Zero, and when they accepted it and hired Danny, then Danny called me and said because he already knew that I know of this project, and yeah, let's do it together. So there you go. And then you were hired into EF.

**[06:40] SPEAKER_03:** Yes. I did have a date for that. I've forgotten. I guess it was shortly after Devcon Zero, right, that you started there.

**[07:07] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, correct. Did you go to Berlin or Amsterdam? Well, when did you first meet other people? How did it. Amsterdam in February 15, right? That's where I met Jeffrey Wilcke, the creator of Go Ethereum, and the Go Ethereum team back then. I don't say Geth because that abbreviation was invented later. But yeah, that's where I met the Go Ethereum people. And I already had these contributions to Swarm, and it was kind of an implied thing that maybe I might be hired, but there was really no official hiring process back then. Right, so it was really just Jeff was this really laid back guy, and he just said, okay, okay, man, I saw your contributions, let's talk sometime this week. And I waited the whole week and waited for some serious interview. Like it's it was a dream job for me. Yeah, like but by that time I was really enthusiastic about this whole thing, and I felt that even though I felt this whole initial design was yeah, I couldn't really imagine how it would scale and everything, and it is a hard problem, so it was true, but it was still worth starting it. And I was really enthusiastic and I really wanted to get hired. And yeah, the whole week I just waited, and at the end of the week, like the last half an hour before we all left home, Jeff just said, oh yeah, when I wanted to talk to you, you're hired. Okay, that's a good talk.

**[08:47] SPEAKER_03:** So yeah. This is how the hiring process went back then. Excellent. Well, that's easy. We like that. And so you that was before you went to Amsterdam, I assume. I assume you went to Amsterdam after you had been hired.

**[09:07] SPEAKER_01:** No, no, it happened in Amsterdam. Oh, I see. So I went to Amsterdam unhired. Yeah, so Jeff agreed that if I mean, I bought my own plane ticket, but I could stay at the Airbnb where the whole team stayed, and I just worked with them and showed my contributions. So I went to Amsterdam unhired. But yeah, I mean, right.

**[09:29] SPEAKER_03:** Right. That plane ticket was a good investment. So yeah. Did they not have office space at that point even?

**[09:35] SPEAKER_01:** Well, they did. They actually back then there was an Amsterdam office. Right, it was mostly for Jeff because Jeff lived in Amsterdam. But when Jeff left, or maybe before that, I'm not sure exactly. But this office was closed, and actually it was a really small office. Right, last time I checked, now I think it's a dentist. Oh, yeah, works there. Yeah, yeah, it doesn't exist, but it was really just a small place. But I later went to Berlin a lot after I was hired, and for the Geth team, it was really, really centered in Berlin. So right, right, because yeah, I guess as well as Jeff, you've got Bas, right? I he was another Amsterdam person. Bas Bas van... Yeah, but then maybe most of the other team members weren't in Berlin.

**[10:41] SPEAKER_01:** Sorry, not in Amsterdam. I mean, yeah, no one else was quite quite distributed. Bas was there for a short time, relatively short time, and Jeffrey also left after a while, yeah, and started his own company right.

**[10:57] SPEAKER_03:** Develop games or something. Yeah, so though he did have F Labs. Was another one. Do you know anything about F Labs? Because when Jeff worked with JP Morgan to do Quorum, that was announced under the label F Labs. Never heard of that. Yeah, I think I heard the name.

**[11:20] SPEAKER_01:** But I didn't really know what it does. But yeah, I knew that Jeff started working with JP Morgan back then. And then in that time, big banks really really wanted to just talk to us at every Devcon, and right, we were always invited to fancy dinners by some main people. So banks really wanted to learn about the technology. Yeah, yeah. So Jeff went for a while to work on Quorum. Yes, true. Yeah, yeah. I mean, unless I can somehow get in contact with Jeff, I guess it's a little bit of a mystery what exactly F Labs was. Though I suspect it might be a little bit like Ethosphaera, just sort of being a name, a banner for activities rather than a legal entity. And another thing, I don't know there, but I suspect is I don't think Jeff told Ming that he was doing that stuff with JPM. I suspect that he completely just did that on his own without any communication with Ming or with the EF.

**[12:34] SPEAKER_01:** Well, actually, he never really told a lot to us about that. So right, we knew that he's working with JP Morgan, but probably like it's a big bank, probably he had to sign a contract on disclosure agreement, so just he probably couldn't share all the details. No, I mean, I remember at some point and I can't remember the context him saying he found it interesting because the consensus for that was on chain, like this, the consensus for that was happening as smart contracts, so it was kind of almost like this pluggable consensus, but consensus pulled up into the app layer. So he found that quite interesting. The initial called Quorum consensus, it didn't last long. But I think Gavin also was doing that sort of stuff on the C++ side. He did some proof of authority stuff before that happened on the Geth side, you know, before Clique. That was, this was okay. Well, you can he actually made a different C++ client. So you've got F, but he made another one that was called like Fluidity or something, which was pulling all the libraries in the same, but it was with a proof of authority consensus. But he did that was one of the last things he did before he went out to Parity. So I think both him and Jeff were interested at that thought of well, how can you formulate these pieces in different ways for those kind of use cases. Interesting. But yeah, he left. I think it was probably very early in 2017. I did find a period, but it was certainly ahead of Devcon Three. Let me see if I can find the date. Yeah, I don't remember the exact date.

**[14:44] SPEAKER_01:** And actually, there was maybe there wasn't even a really exact date when Jeff left. No, because so basically a month after I joined, Peter Szilagyi joined, and he was the team lead for a very long time. So Jeff basically yeah, kind of handed it on to Peter, and for a while he was officially still team lead but not really. We haven't seen him on the calls for no.

**[15:13] SPEAKER_03:** So the date I found was February 2017, but I think I got that from GitHub. I think that was like his final commit, but he probably tailed off. Yeah, he's a long time. Yeah, he already started focusing on other stuff like this Quorum stuff and then his own things sometime in 16. So yeah, yeah.

**[15:37] SPEAKER_03:** Started a company called Grid Games with his brother, just building a particular game, but that also seems to have ceased. So yeah, he's unknown off in the world somewhere. That's pretty much all I know about him. We try to invite him a few times to just come to some event and meet up, but yeah, I think for some reasons he really had enough of maybe not us but things going on in the EF.

**[16:09] SPEAKER_03:** And yeah, I mean, yeah, I think that would be the case that when Ming came in, she both did legal tidy up but also cut the spending a lot. You know, you'd had the crowd sale in July, August, September 2014, but coming up to the mainnet release a year later, like nearly all the money was gone.

**[16:36] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, they spent it very fast. So Devcon One was a postponed one because of that. Yeah, and we didn't really feel a lot of this actually. Jeff just said that now that Ether price is so low, actually I think the lower point was 42 cents. And full year it didn't really move, and Jeff just said that okay, we all have to take a pay cut, but the pay cut was really just 10 percent, and I think maybe he took a bigger one. So yeah, yeah. For us, it was really not that bad, and the idea was that when Ether price reaches two dollars, then we do have some go back some some some time to some money to go forward. So yeah, then our salaries went back, and that wasn't a lot of time. So actually for I think yeah, this is I don't really remember the price history, and maybe it's not the most important thing, but I think I think I think enterprise reached something like 10 dollars pretty soon, like in 2016, the start of 2016. And we went even a little bit higher, but then we had the DAO fork and the Shanghai attacks. And well, given how turbulent those times were, the markets helped pretty well. So yeah, yeah. And with 10 enterprise, we could survive further. And yeah.

**[18:18] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I mean that was quite a jump up. I mean, I heard that at the worst point, there was only four months of runway left. You know, that was how close it was to running out of money. Um, but yeah, there were those big cuts which really resulted in Gavin and the C++ team being the main victims of those cuts. Um, but then yeah, just into 2016. Pardon me, so I was hired in February 2016, same time as Greg Colvin came in and also Pavel was rehired. You know, he was working through IMAP, working on that JIT, but that contract stopped, but then he came back at that time as well. So it was this period through late 2015 to early 2016 was like the absolute bottom of like, are we even going to ship this thing? Are we going to run out of money before we get to mainnet? But then some of us were really coming in as backfill for that C++ team. Yeah, so I mean Devcon One was sort of, you were mentioning in that series, that had got cancelled, but then Consensus came in and actually paid for that and said hey, we'll mainly organize it and kind of so that the thing can happen. So that was the big, the first public event. So what are your memories of Devcon One?

**[19:55] SPEAKER_01:** My subjective impression was that it's really amazing. Yeah, compared to today's Devcons, it was small. I think three hundred something people, maybe, but I'm not sure about less than a thousand. And it was in a really really prestigious venue, some old bank building or Threadneedle Street. Yeah, it's like City of London. And I really felt like okay, so now this is really a serious thing, and probably that was the reason why Consensus stepped in and funded the event, so we really could step up in terms of like public appearance and appears something really serious. And yeah, I remember like all the big banks having the president, like the booth at Devcon One. Right, yeah. So then Microsoft is headline sponsor. It's like wow, right, recognition. Right, that you're like, wow, Microsoft are interested and supportive. And yeah, I mean for a lot of people, it was a real kind of wow, like this is for real. Sadly, I could not afford to go. I watched the live stream. I was not quite in and working yet. I was an enthusiastic contributor, but yeah.

**[21:34] SPEAKER_01:** Actually, it was also like the first time for me when I met a larger number of Ethereum people. Right, yeah. I first met the Go Ethereum team in early 15, and yeah, I went to Amsterdam one more time I think in May, but Devcon One was the place where I really realized how big this thing is, and it's really not just about client developers, but also even back then people presented about formal verification and all this stuff. So I realized that it is this, this is really big, and probably everyone wants to be a part of it.

**[22:20] SPEAKER_03:** At least a little bit. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, looking back at Devcon One videos, it's like everything, any kind of use case you could think of, there was somebody presenting about it. You know, so early, more than 10 years ago, but you know, many many concepts which were probably like massively too early to do, but maybe you can do them all now seem to be presented. You had Nick Szabo as well, Nick Szabo doing a keynote. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Nick Szabo was also there. So was that maybe the first time that you'd met a number of the people in Berlin, like Christoph Jentzsch and Lane Rettig and maybe even Gavin? I think I met some of these people already in London, and I think first time I went to Berlin office back then it was like the old office. Yeah, right. But yeah, some people I met at Devcon One, some people I met in Berlin, but yeah, yeah.

**[23:24] SPEAKER_03:** No. So was Devcon One the first time that you'd been to do Ethereum things in London? Or did you go to any sort of London meetups or meet any of those core people earlier?

**[23:39] SPEAKER_01:** I didn't go to any meetups to London before, but actually I did. Victor was in London at the time, and I was I went to London around the time actually if you're doing some event with my old software company, the Hungarian software company. Oh, right. Yeah, so we went to London to like sell our software and everything. So I was still working there, right? And after that, yeah, I met up with Victor and talked about things.

**[24:23] SPEAKER_03:** Because yeah, he from what he was describing, and then I was looking at videos and things later. He had seen Gavin talk in London in very, very early February. I think it was February the 6th. So almost immediately after they'd had the Miami launch, you know, Vitalik's first public talk, and Anthony Di Iorio's like mansion where they a lot of them met for the first time. Gavin had been back in London, I think it was like a week after, and did a talk there that Victor had gone to. That was Victor's first in-person meeting with any of these, and then Gavin had pulled him on board. Yeah. So those are like the very very early days. I wasn't there. So when I first heard about Ethereum, that was March or April 14. So I first heard about the pre-sale, and yeah, that's that's where I first heard about this thing. But yeah, I know that Gavin was like one of the very early founders of this, and he wrote the Yellow Paper, yeah, full of Greek letters. Yes.

**[25:51] SPEAKER_03:** Very confusing. And the C++ client, of course. So the first time I think I saw your name or was in contact with you was about light client. Because you know, I'd been trying to get Ethereum ARM Linux cross builds running on my smartwatch, and my thought there was get the thing running, and then this light client stuff is just kind of starting, and scaling will be solved, right? We're going to be able to like run these nodes on anything. You'll have them on your phone, smartwatch, router. They'll be in every operating system. You know, it's just we'll solve that scaling and that lightness. So you were plunged right into that problem, right?

**[26:38] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so when Jeff hired me, actually he put me on this project. He just said that okay, it's great that I contributed to Swarm, but if I joined the Geth team, I will have to start working on the light client because it's a very important thing and it hasn't been started yet. Yeah, so I felt really good about it. Like I also felt like this is a big thing, and back then it really felt like we do these few things, we have a working light client protocol, and the whole eternity of like a base layer, and then we're all good. But it wasn't that easy, but still those were the first steps. And so I designed the LES protocol. Yeah, in retrospect, it didn't make a lot of sense to design it over the DevP2P layer, right? Because it wasn't easy to access from web browsers and stuff, and also it was a proof of work based light client. Right, so that project ended after a while, but I'm still very much into like trustless chain access. So that's usually been one of my focuses all the time. So right now I'm also working on something called the trustless execution layer API, which is similar to the Beacon REST API, but works on the execution layer and provides everything with proofs. So I'm still very much into this because I think this is where it really makes sense if even normal users access chain data with proofs.

**[28:36] SPEAKER_03:** Right, right. And there was a project called Portal as well. Were you involved with Portal? That was a later kind of like client.

**[28:42] SPEAKER_01:** No, I wasn't. So Portal was Piper Marion's brainchild. And yeah, so by the time we kind of realized that LES was a nice first experiment but maybe not the best approach, he started something different that was UDP-based and also use different topologies. So it was kind of a DHT approach to storing the chain and the state. And yeah, actually I'm kind of like I think it's a bad thing that it's been completely canceled. Because well, to be honest, I never really believed that it will be an easily solvable problem to store the Merkle Patricia tree of the state on a DHT. But for the chain data, it made perfect sense. So maybe maybe the state would have been possible with a lot of work, but I mean, Piper told me a few times about how he imagines the order to solve all the unsolvable problems, and I felt like yeah it sounds good, but he just made a lot of really hard assumptions about DHTs. By the time I worked on Discovery V5, there was also this discovery protocol that basically we designed it in 2016 in Berlin with Felix, and I released the original version. And yeah, so I already knew that it's never so easy to imagine a DHT that's efficiently formed that all the nodes are working. And like this. So for the chain data, especially with EIP 4444, like that lets the main protocol nodes processing main protocol forget all the chain history. Right, so it made perfect sense to at least put the chain history on a DHT. But yeah, so it was an EF decision that it was discontinued. At points, well, I mean, I guess the thing is you know, Patricia Merkle trees are not great for the number of accesses and things. Anyway, let alone if you're making each of those steps over a networked DHT kind of setup. That's yeah, there's a lot of complexity. State three suffers from a lot of issues, especially in America, Patricia state three.

**[31:32] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, and it's a huge data set that keeps changing all the time and keeps changing in completely random places. And it's not as easy a task to distribute it. Right, so actually it's getting harder to even synchronize it between the full nodes in the entire state. Yeah, yeah.

**[31:59] SPEAKER_03:** So do you do you think that proofs are going to be a magic silver bullet here where by having local proofs versus massive really redundant state machines? Do you think there's a path here?

**[32:24] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, yeah, no, it's not a silver bullet. So I assume you mean what people call statelessness. So it's a good thing. It definitely allows a higher degree of scanning, but the state tree still has to be processed and maintained by someone. And especially if most of the most of the nodes have no incentive to process it. And yeah, now we are talking about a thousand times scaling, then even if we also do state expiry which is currently imagined in a way that we basically reset the state tree every year or something, and yeah, have multiple state trees. So that has somewhat, but if we scale a thousand times, then it will be a huge infrastructural centralization issue. And yeah, by the way, this thing is not an unsolvable problem. I mean, the state as it works today, unfortunately somehow makes it really hard to do any fundamental improvements over these properties. But people are considering different storage architectures. Yeah, of course, we have to keep the existing contracts workable because that was our main promise from the beginning. Right, but we will not just shut down anything. Everything has 100 percent uptime. But it is it is a viable way to come up with more efficient storage methods and use it as an opt-in alternative that will over time be available for much less, and new contracts can be designed using those more efficient storage architectures.

**[34:26] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, because Verkle trees seem to be the first sort of thought on that, but then those kind of come and gone, and maybe it's a binary tree or actually it does either.

**[34:40] SPEAKER_01:** So important either. I mean, both are better than the Merkle Patricia tree. Yeah, but in some ways, but they don't solve this fundamental issue by themselves. So still the thing is that the state is a permanent key value store, and in order to avoid it growing forever, yeah, there's all these ideas about state expiry, but still it's going to be a huge data set. And the method of hashing or like consensus protocol representation doesn't fundamentally change this. Verkle was supposed to provide more efficient marker proofs, but also I guess somewhat more expensive state processing because it's more expensive cryptography. Also, if I'm correct, it's not quantum secure. So right, right. And that was also a thing where I always felt like yeah, I'm not sure if it's a good idea to start working from now, and I just saw it in front of my eyes how it's going to be canceled. And um, yeah, so I mean I guess for running nodes in general, you know, there's not a lot of incentive for people to run any kind of like node software themselves unless they are a validator or you're running an exchange or a business, and you know, you need your backend to that. I guess the vision that there was at the start of like well, everyone will be running their own node, and you've got Mist on top of it, and you know, it's local apps. And then that can have Swarm for the smart contracts, and you know, it's almost like you won't have server architecture because everyone's running a server stack. And then that did not happen.

**[36:47] SPEAKER_01:** Actually, that's why we are also stuck with the JSON RPC API which doesn't provide proofs except for it gets proofs, but doesn't provide proofs for a lot of things. Because it was never meant to be used remotely; it was always imagined that it's used locally in a trusted setup on your own machine. And yeah, I remember all those good old days when I just synced up a full node, it was a few gigabytes of this space, and ran Mist on top of it, and all the magic. But yeah, unfortunately it didn't scale.

**[37:29] SPEAKER_03:** At the Museum of Ethereum here, I've got laptops running Geth 1.36 so Homestead Geth, and I mind Homestead back to life. So you know, any hard fork that happens, the old one doesn't go away. It doesn't disappear. It's just people don't associate any economic value with it, and it kind of gets abandoned. But yeah, what I've done is first GPU and then down to CPU mine that Homestead difficulty down to the level that you can CPU mine it again. So I have I have got Mist running on those. So we can go and transact. We can send a transaction between those, and it should be possible to run Aleth 0 and Aleth 1 and mix on that as well. I haven't had time to do that. And you know, ERC20 tokens existed. You know, you could have DAO tokens or Mist Coin. Yeah, at that time. But the assumption that people would run their own node and it would all be self-sovereign local apps certainly did not come to fruition.

**[38:56] SPEAKER_01:** Well, yeah, that's when the light client came in, and then we assumed that okay, then we do the light client, and yeah, it will be all solved.

**[39:00] SPEAKER_03:** That's it. That's what I was thinking. Like right, I've got a full node running on my smartwatch that works, and I'll just wait for you and the other guys to sort out light client and just turn that on, and there we go.

**[39:11] SPEAKER_01:** Well, actually the light client protocol worked fine. It's just I spent like a really crazy amount of time figuring out how it could be decent, like incentivized in a truly decentralized way. Because yeah, I remember this there was this idealism that now we are almost done with everything, so we just have to find a real proper way for incentivizing things, but not in a way that there are a few companies where you can buy like tokens, but truly in a decentralized way, which is much harder. Because then we have to somehow build decentralized trust and figure out market mechanisms that work without initial trust. So this is something I spent years with, and honestly I think I came up with some nice theoretical models and a lot of really complex code, but yeah, it's just again was like the wrong approach, maybe also at the wrong time. So we were just not there really. Because I mean BitTorrent has obviously worked for distributing content for many many years, but then you do have this tragedy of the commons. Right? Is the latest Hollywood movie, someone has ripped it off, and people want that, so that's going to get shared around no problem. But things which are only of interest to a smaller number of people without incentives, it's just a leeching problem. Right? You kind of good full node runners would contribute. They'll turn on the LES as well, right? They would help supply that. But the incentives and economics are that not easy. Yeah, actually with BitTorrent, it also usually if you really want to use it, it requires trackers where you buy some priority access. So right, there are these private trackers and everything. So yeah, and those are also like not completely decentralized, but actually it does work. So it's definitely better than nothing. But for Ethereum, it wasn't really this easy because this whole service was like downloading movies was an application that everyone understood that everybody used. And somehow with Ethereum, it was always this yeah, everyone felt the importance, but if you're nowhere near close to a really mature ecosystem, and so it was just I don't think there would have been a big enough market really for these services to work out in a market-based way. But as we scale, and accessing the whole dataset becomes more and more difficult at a certain point, I think we are going to have something like reimagined several years ago. So it's just both like timing and specifics. I was I was right about everything except timing and specifics. Yeah, yes, yes. Yeah, I mean, there's a number of things that seemed like they would be easy and quick and obvious and have taken so many years. I mean, like proof of stake. You know, it was in the white paper. There was an assumption later in 2015 that'll happen within six months, maybe three to six months. And then it's eight years before it actually went live. And yeah, I mean on storage, Filecoin, their first white paper was in 2014 as well. You know, Filecoin was not a new thing. And IPFS was around before Ethereum as well. And then Whisper kind of went for a while, and now there's and and and you'd have you've had Status driving a lot of those tests for a lot of those years as well. You know, Jared Hope and team, who were also doing an Android version of the Java client. You know, the same kind of time as I was looking at smart watches. Yeah.

**[44:06] SPEAKER_01:** Jared Hope was also very eagerly waiting for for like the fully functional client. Yeah, yeah.

**[44:12] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, because you know, they were building kind of decentralized work, a super app. But I guess you know, kind of a competitor to Mist, really similar kind of thing, wanting to have a container for running dApps sitting on top of a local client again. You know, having this completely self-sovereign server app stack, but not easy. And I can't remember who it was that was telling me that when they first saw MetaMask, which was at Devcon One, that was one of the grant winners. Was MetaMask, them thinking no, that's not what we want. We don't want like some browser extension thing talking to a trusted endpoint. That's absolutely the opposite. Like what are these guys doing? And then that's become the standard flow. Right?

**[45:18] SPEAKER_01:** This is still kind of an unsolved problem to access everything in a truly decentralized way. But I think we are getting there over time. It's just nothing nothing is as simple as we initially imagined, and also there's a time for everything. And I think through decentralized infrastructure will be forced by scaling and things. Sometimes things just don't happen if they are not forced by some circumstance, some fact, some external factor. So yeah, as long as it's there, it works in a lazy way to just connect MetaMask to Infura. Until then, it's the standard way. Yeah, yeah. So I think I found two different talks of yours at Devcons talking really about light client. Do you remember did you talk in London or was Shanghai your first?

**[46:22] SPEAKER_01:** No, I talked at London also Shanghai and also in Cancun. Yeah, so those were the first two Devcons that were mostly about the light client. So they actually the first release of the LES protocol was in 16, so it was around that time. And later I already started to invent all the next chapters of decentralized technology. And yeah, it was really naive of me. But I also had this project back then where I started to try to make logs provable efficiently. And that was the initial attempt for that was in 2017, and now I'm back at it. Now I also have this trustless log index project. And yeah, so all the approaches in 2017 was just a more efficient way to organize the bloom filters, but it didn't really solve the problem of the bloom filters not adapting to the number of events, and also it never I even proposed putting it into consensus which would have allowed the actual trustless proofs through the chain. Right, so that also proved to be a hard problem. But this is one of the things what I presented in Cancun. Right, right. Oh, yeah, and also some kind of my my ideas of state channels. Back then we didn't have L2s in a way. So actually back then layer two just meant something that happens off chain, not necessarily another blockchain. Yeah, and yeah, so I had these ideas about individual nodes running their own blockchains and somehow organizing some off chain calculations through that. But yeah, it's also assumed a lot about how those would operate, and probably would have never worked.

**[48:50] SPEAKER_03:** It's a suspect. Right. Yeah. So I mean we had state channels, and then we had Plasma, and then eventually coming into Optimistic Roll-ups and then ZK later, just many many different attempts. Hello, sir. Great to see you. Okay. So yeah, I mean I guess there's an awful lot of learning, 10 years worth of lots of people trying lots of different things. So I mean in terms of the Geth team, has that been similar over the years? Or have you had larger and smaller amounts of people? Has it been a similar kind of flow through that time?

**[49:36] SPEAKER_01:** I would say it was pretty consistently around 10 people throughout all these years. Sometimes eight, nine, sometimes 11, 12, but really in this range. We did improve our internal processes during the years. So now we do have all this issue and pull request triages. But really, it's been mostly that team was also always small enough so that we didn't need a lot of