**[00:01] SPEAKER_03:** So, hello and welcome to ETHDenver 2024. So here recording for Early Days of Ethereum with Zoltán Palfalvi. How do you pronounce your name? Zolt? Zolt? There you go. Anyway, so yeah, I was working out when we were recently, you know, reconnected at Devconnect, and I was working out that you're the third longest person at the Ethereum Foundation, right? That you've got Vitalik and then uh and then...

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Felix, and then you. Yeah, I haven't really checked this fact yet, but uh, honestly, yeah, it...

**[00:44] SPEAKER_03:** Sounds great, that's it. So I mean, you're a very long time, you know, member of the Geth team, yes. But what were you doing before you started at the Foundation? What was your background? How...

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** Did you find your way into the blockchain world? Well, before Ethereum, I was working on really different types of projects. So, I first started at a Hungarian software company, like a really classic software company. We actually sold software in boxes, like put on a shelf discs, like floppy disks. Put in a box on a shelf and you can buy the software. So like this type of classic software, five and a quarter inch floppies. Yeah, yeah, actually three and a half was... Oh, okay, three and a half, we're on to modern floppies. Yeah, but maybe also like, I said in '97, so maybe I was exaggerating a little. So by that time it was mostly CDs, we still used a lot of floppies anyway. So at that company I did things related to computer graphics, like I built a ray tracing engine for some architectural software, and then I also did a lot of work on electronic circuit simulation and circuit design. Right, so yeah, really different things. And it was around 2011 when I first heard about Bitcoin, right. And around 2012 when I started to realize that, as weird as it sounds, it really is probably a big thing. And yeah, so actually I first heard about Ethereum early 2014, a few months after the initial paper had been published. Yeah, and started contributing I think around November, and officially joined EF...

**[03:02] SPEAKER_03:** Uh, in uh 2015 March. So yeah. And did you hear about it, you think through like um through Danny and...

**[03:10] SPEAKER_01:** Victor or some other way? Well, I did hear about it from like Danny and Victor's friend circle. So right, yeah. But uh, then Victor was already... Actually, I never, I didn't know Victor before. So I heard about this thing through one of them, his friends, and then Victor was also in that wider circle. And he came to Hungary and said, "Oh, I'm already working on this." And then I started with my ideas and started to explain to him why this thing probably will never work. And he was like, "Okay, you seem to have a good understanding of this, why don't you come to work..."

**[03:52] SPEAKER_03:** Right, right, right. So yeah. And was I'm right in thinking that you said it was Swarm that you started...

**[03:59] SPEAKER_01:** With? Well yeah. So Swarm was like part of this initial, like the trinity of base technologies of Ethereum. So it was supposed to be the storage layer for dApps. Yeah, I mean it was kind of a naive way of how people imagine the decentralized applications back there. But but honestly, it made sense at the time. So I will say that, yeah, nothing ever turned out exactly the way that people imagined it, but we are still making a lot of progress. So yeah, Swarm was how we initially imagined the storage layer for Ethereum. And I mean this project still has merits, but yeah, this whole problem space is just a bit more complex. Yeah, yeah. So I started contributing to Swarm first, and actually I brought the first like 500 lines...

**[05:02] SPEAKER_03:** Of Swarm. There you go. Yeah, I mean I think if I remember rightly that Victor mentioned around May 2014 was when he first heard, you know, that the trinity, that this concept that you could have, you know, Ethereum as your sort of your compute and expensive database, Swarm as your decentralized storage, and then Whisper as your messaging. There's that famous diagram, right, with the there's like a circle and the things coming in and Whisper going around the edge. And there's another one of those. Um, but uh, but yeah, I mean I guess it was Devcon Zero where Danny really presented a sort of a fleshed out vision of uh...

**[05:51] SPEAKER_01:** Of what that decentralized storage? Yes, that's correct. I wasn't there at Devcon Zero yet, so I've heard about this idea even before I heard about Ethereum. So with Danny already told me about this idea that he wants to do this kind of hash-based chunk storage. Yeah, and uh, so it made total sense that he just pitched that, that can fit in. Yeah, yeah, at the time it was a perfect fit. Yeah, um, so so he pitched this idea at Devcon Zero, and when they accepted it and hired Danny, then Danny called me and said, because he already knew that I know of this project, and yeah, then let's do it together. So there you go. And then so you were hired...

**[06:40] SPEAKER_03:** Into EF. Um, yes, I did have a date for that, I've forgotten. I guess it was shortly after, shortly after Devcon Zero, right, that you that you started there? Yes, correct. Did you go to Berlin or Amsterdam? Well, when did you first meet other people? How did it was uh Amsterdam in uh in February 15, right? Uh that's...

**[07:07] SPEAKER_01:** Where I met uh Jeffrey Wilcke, the creator of go-ethereum, and the go-ethereum team back then. I don't say Geth because that Geth was like this abbreviation was invented later. But so so yeah, that's where I met the go-ethereum people. Yeah, and uh I already like had these contributions to Swarm and it was like kind of an implied thing that maybe I might be hired, but but but there was really no official hiring process back then, right. So yeah, it was really just um uh Jeff was this really laid back guy and he just said, "Okay, okay man, I saw your contributions and let's talk some uh sometime this week." And uh yeah, I waited the whole week and waited for some some serious interview. Like it's it was a dream job for me, yeah. Like but by that time I sorry I I I was really enthusiastic about this whole thing and I felt like even so, even though I felt that uh this whole initial design was uh yeah, I I I couldn't really couldn't imagine how it was scale and everything, and yeah, it is a hard problem. So yeah, it was true, but it was still worth starting it. And uh and and and I was really enthusiastic and I really wanted to get hired. And uh yeah, the whole week I just waited, and at the end of the week, like the last half an hour before we all left home, Jeff just said, "Oh yeah, when I wanted to talk to you, you're hired." Okay, that's a good...

**[08:47] SPEAKER_03:** Talk. So yeah, this is how the hiring process went back then. Excellent. Well that's that's easy, we like that. And uh so you that that was that was before you went to Amsterdam, I assume? I assume you went to Amsterdam after you had been hired? No, no, no, it happened in Amsterdam. Oh, you so I see, so you were there...

**[09:07] SPEAKER_01:** Unhired, on site. Yeah. So uh so uh so I like like Jeff agreed that if I mean I I bought my own plane ticket, but I could stay at the Airbnb where the whole team stayed. And uh yeah, I just worked with them and showed my contributions. And yeah, so so I I I went to Amsterdam unhired, but uh yeah, I mean right...

**[09:29] SPEAKER_03:** Right. That plane ticket was a good investment. So yeah. Um, so did they not have office space at that...

**[09:35] SPEAKER_01:** Point even? Well, they did. They actually back then there was an Amsterdam office, right. Uh it was mostly for Jeff uh because Jeff lived in Amsterdam, yeah. But um uh when Jeff left, yeah, or maybe before that, I'm not sure exactly, but so the this office was closed. And actually it was a really small office, right. Uh last time I checked, now I think it's a dentist. Uh like oh yeah, works there. Yeah, yeah, it doesn't exist. But it was really just a small small place. But uh uh uh later I I I I went to Berlin a lot after I was hired, and and and yeah, it was it was for for for the Geth team. It was really really it was centered in in somehow in in uh Berlin. So right, right. Because yeah, I mean I guess as well as Jeff...

**[10:27] SPEAKER_03:** You've got, you've got, you've got Bas, right? I I I he he he he was another uh Amsterdam person, right? Bas, Bas, Bas Van yeah. Um, but then maybe most of the other team members weren't in Berlin...

**[10:41] SPEAKER_01:** Sorry, not in Amsterdam. I mean, yeah, yeah, no one else was. Quite quite distributed. Bas was there for a short time, relatively short time. And Jeffrey also uh left uh after a while, yeah, and started his own...

**[10:57] SPEAKER_03:** Company, right? Develop games or something? Yeah. So though he he did have oh EF Labs was another one. Do you know anything about EF Labs? Because when Jeff worked with JP Morgan to do Quorum, um, that was announced under under the label EF Labs. Never heard of that. Yeah, I think I heard the name...

**[11:20] SPEAKER_01:** But I didn't really know uh what it does. But yeah, I I that this is something I knew that Jeff started working with JP Morgan, yeah, back then. And then in in that time, big banks really really wanted to to to to just talk to us at every Devcon. And right, we were always invited to fancy dinners by some main people. And yeah, so so banks really wanted to learn about the technology. Yeah, yeah. So so Jeff Jeff went went uh for a while to work on Quorum. Yes, true. Yeah, yeah, I mean I I unless I can...

**[11:56] SPEAKER_03:** Somehow get in contact with Jeff, I I guess it's a little bit of a mystery what what exactly EF Labs was, though. I suspect it might be a little bit like um Ethosphere of just sort of being a, you know, a name, a banner for activities rather than a legal entity. Um, and and another thing I don't know there, but I suspect is I don't think Jeff told Ming that he was doing that stuff with JPM. I suspect that he completely just did that on his own without any communication with Ming or or with the EF. It's just...

**[12:34] SPEAKER_01:** Well, actually he never really told a lot to us about that. So right, we knew that yeah, he's working with JP Morgan, but probably like it's a big bank, probably he had to sign a contract on disclosure agreement. So just he probably couldn't share all the details. No, no. I mean I remember at some point and...

**[12:54] SPEAKER_03:** I can't remember the context, him saying he found it interesting because the consensus for that was on chain. Like this the the consensus for that was happening as smart contracts. So it was kind of almost like this pluggable consensus, but consensus pulled up, you know, into the app layer. So he found that quite interesting that the the initial called Quorum consensus, it didn't last long. But um but I think Gav also was was doing that sort of stuff on the C++ side. That he he did some proof of authority stuff uh before that happened on the Geth side, you know, before Clique. Um, that the the was this okay. Well, you can he actually made a different C++ client. So you've got EF, but he made another one that was called like Fluidity or something, which was like pulling all the libraries in the same, but it was with a proof of authority consensus. But he did that was one of the last things he did before he went out to Parity. So I I think both him and Jeff were, you know, interested at that thought of well, how can you formulate these these pieces in in different ways, right, for those kind of uh use cases. Interesting. But yeah, he he he he he left. Um, I think it was I think it was probably very early in 2017. I I did I did find a a period, but it was certainly ahead of uh ahead of of Devcon uh three. Let me see if I can find the date. Yeah, uh I don't remember the exact date...

**[14:44] SPEAKER_01:** And actually there was maybe there wasn't even a really exact date when Jeff left. No, because uh so so so so uh basically a month after I joined, Péter Szilágyi joined. And uh and he he he was the team lead for a very long time. So Jeff basically uh yeah kind of handed it on to Péter, and for a while he was officially still team lead, but not really. We haven't seen him on the calls for...

**[15:13] SPEAKER_03:** No. So the date I found there was February 2017, but I I think I got that from GitHub. I think that was like his final commit, but he probably tailed off. Yeah, he's a long time. Yeah, he already started focusing...

**[15:29] SPEAKER_01:** On other stuff. Uh like this Quorum stuff, and then his own things uh sometime in 16. So yeah, yeah. So...

**[15:37] SPEAKER_03:** Started a company called Grid Games with his brother, just building building a particular game. But that also seems to have ceased. So yeah, he's unknown off in the world somewhere. Yeah, that's pretty...

**[15:52] SPEAKER_01:** Much all I know about him. He we try to invite him a few times to just come to some event and and meet up. And but yeah, I think think of for some reasons he really had enough of, maybe not us, but uh but but...

**[16:09] SPEAKER_03:** Things going on in the EF. And yeah, I mean yeah, I think that would be the case that you um you know when Ming came in, she both did legal tidy up, but also cut the spending a lot. You know that you'd had the crowd sale in July August September 2014, but coming up to the mainnet release a year later, like nearly...

**[16:36] SPEAKER_01:** All the money was gone. Yes, they spent it very fast. Yeah. So that uh Devcon One was a postponed one because of that, yeah. So and uh and but we didn't really uh feel a lot of this actually. Uh Jeff just said that uh that now that Ether price is so low, actually I think the lower point was uh 42 cents, yeah. And uh full year it didn't really move. And Jeff just said that okay, uh we all have to take a pay cut. But the pay cut was really just uh 10 percent, and I think maybe he took a bigger one. So yeah, yeah, for us it was really not that uh bad. And uh and the the the idea was that when Ether price uh reaches two dollars, then yeah, we do have some go back some some some time to some money to go forward. So yeah, then then our salaries went back. So and that wasn't a lot of time. So yeah, actually uh for for for I think yeah, this is I don't don't really remember the price history, and maybe it's not the most important thing. But uh but I think I think I think uh Ether price reached something like 10 dollars pretty soon, like in 2016, the start of 2016, yeah. And and we went even a little bit higher, but then we had the DAO Fork and the the Shanghai attacks. And right, and well uh given how how turbulent those times were, the markets helped pretty well. So so yeah, yeah. And with 10 Ether, we could survive further. And yeah...

**[18:18] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I mean that was quite a jump up. I mean I I heard that at the worst point there was only four months of runway left, you know, that was how close it was to to running out of money. Um, but yeah, there were those big cuts which really, you know, resulted in like Gav, Gavin, the C++ team, were the the main kind of like victims of those cuts. Um, but then yeah, just into 2016, pardon me. So I was hired in February 2016, uh same time as um uh Greg Colvin came in, and also uh uh Pavel uh was rehired. You know, he he was working through IMAP, uh you know, working on that JIT. Um, but they that contract stopped, but then then he came back at that time as well. So it was this this period through late 2015 to early 2016 was like, you know, the absolute bottom of like, are we even going to ship this thing? Are we going to run out of money before we get to mainnet? Um, but then yeah, some of us were really coming in as as backfill for for that for that C++ team. Yeah. So I mean Devcon One was sort of, you know, you were mentioning in in that in that series that uh had had got cancelled. Uh, but then ConsenSys came in and actually like paid for that and said, "Hey, we'll we'll like mainly organize it and kind of uh so that the thing can happen." Um, so that was the big, you know, the first public event. So what what...

**[19:55] SPEAKER_01:** What your what your memories of of Devcon One? Well, my my subjective impression was that it's really amazing. Yeah, compared to today's Devcons, it was small. I think three hundred something people, maybe. Uh, but uh I'm not sure about less than a thousand, yeah. And um and um yeah, it was it was in a really really prestigious venue, some some old bank building or Threadneedle Street. Yeah, it's like City of London. And and yeah, I I really felt like okay, so now this is this is really a serious thing. And probably that was the reason why ConsenSys stepped in and and funded the event, so we really could step up in terms of like public appearance and appears something really serious. And uh yeah, I remember uh like all the big banks having the president like the booth at uh at Devcon One, right. Yeah. So yeah, and then Microsoft...

**[20:59] SPEAKER_03:** Is headline sponsor. It's like wow, right? Like recognition, right? That you you you're like wow, Microsoft are interested and supportive. And um yeah, I mean I think for a lot of people it was a a real kind of wow, like this is for real, you know. Sadly, I I I could not afford to go. I I watched the live stream. I uh was not I was not quite in and working yet. I was an enthusiastic uh contributor, but uh yeah, so...

**[21:34] SPEAKER_01:** Actually, it was also like the first time for me when I met a larger number of Ethereum people, right. Yeah, I I first met the go-ethereum team in in like early 15. And yeah, I went to Amsterdam one more time, I think in May. But uh but uh Devcon One was the place where I really uh like realized that how big this thing this thing is. And and and and it's really not just about like client developers, but also like even even back then people presented about uh formal verification and all this stuff. So yeah, I I realized that it is this this is really big, and probably everyone wants to be a part of it...

**[22:20] SPEAKER_03:** At least a little bit. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, looking back at Devcon One videos, it's like everything, like any kind of use case you could think of, you know, there was somebody presenting about it, you know. This so so early, more than 10 years ago, but you know, many many concepts uh which were probably like massively too early to do, but maybe you can do them all now, seem to be uh presented. You had Nick Szabo as well. Nick Szabo doing a a keynote. Yeah, yeah, Nick Szabo was also there. So was that maybe the first time that you'd met a number of the people in Berlin, like Christoph Jentzsch and Lefteris...

**[23:00] SPEAKER_01:** Terrace? And maybe even Gav? Uh, I think I met some of these people already in London. And I think first time I went to Berlin office, uh back then it was like they need the other, like it was like the old office, yeah, right. But um so yeah, some people I met at Devcon One, some people I met in Berlin. But yeah, yeah. So...

**[23:24] SPEAKER_03:** No, uh, so was that was Devcon One the first time that you'd been to to do Ethereum things in London? Or did you did you go to any sort of London meetups or meet any of those comms people earlier?

**[23:39] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, I didn't go to any meetups to London before. But actually uh I I did. So Victor, Victor was uh was in London at the time. And uh and I was uh I I went to London around the time, actually, if you're doing some some some uh uh event with with my old software company, the Hungarian software company. Oh, right, yeah. So we we we we went to London to to like like like like like sell our software and everything. So I was still working there, right. And after that, yeah, I met up with Victor and talked about...

**[24:23] SPEAKER_03:** Things. Because yeah, he um from what he was describing, and then I was looking at videos and things later, he uh had seen Gav talk in London in very very early February, I think it was February the 6th. Um, so almost immediately after they'd had the Miami, like you know, BTC Miami launch, uh you know, Vitalik's first public talk, and uh and the you know, Anthony Di Iorio's like mansion where they, you know, a lot of them met for the first time. Gav had been back in London, I think it was like a week, a week after, uh, and did a talk there that Victor had gone to. That was Victor's first uh you know, in-person meeting with any of these. And uh and then uh you know, Gav had pulled him on board. Yeah, so those are like...

**[25:22] SPEAKER_01:** The very very early days. I wasn't there. So I when I first heard about Ethereum, that was uh I think March or April uh 14. So I first heard about the pre-sale. And uh yeah, like that's yeah, that's that's that's where I first heard about this thing. But yeah, I know that uh Gavin was like one of the very early founders of this. And and he wrote the the uh Yellow Paper, yeah. Full of Greek letters. Yes...

**[25:51] SPEAKER_03:** Very confusing. Yeah. And and the C++ client, of course. Um, so the the first time I think I saw your name or was in contact with you was was about light client. Uh, because you know I'd I'd been trying to get Ethereum uh ARM Linux cross builds running on my smartwatch. Um, and my thought there was get the thing running, and then this light client stuff is just kind of starting. And you know, like scaling will be solved, right? We're going to be able to like run these nodes on anything, you know. You'll have them on your phone, uh, smartwatch, router. They'll be in every operating system, you know. It's just we'll solve that that that that scaling and that lightness. So you you were plunged right into that problem, right?

**[26:38] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. So when Jeff hired me, actually uh he he he put me on this. He has put me on this project. So so he he just said that uh okay, uh it's great that I contributed to Swarm, but I I I if if if I joined the Geth team, I I will have to uh start working on that on the light client, because it's a very important thing and it hasn't been started yet. Yeah. So yeah, I I felt really good about it. Like yeah, I I I I I also felt like this is this is a big thing. And yeah, back then it really felt like uh we do these few things, we have a working light client protocol, and and and and and the the whole eternity of of like a base layer, and then we're all good. Yeah, but it wasn't that easy. But still those were the first steps. And uh so so I designed the LES protocol, yeah. Uh, in retrospect, it didn't make a lot of sense to uh design to to build it over the devp2p layer, right. Because yeah, like it wasn't easy to access from web browsers and stuff. But also also it was it was a proof of work based light client. And right, so yeah, that that project ended after a while. But uh I'm still uh very much into like uh trustless chain access. So that's that has usually been one of my focuses all the time. So right now I'm also working on on an uh something called the trustless execution real uh execution layer API, right. Which uh is similar to the Beacon REST API, uh but uh works on the execution layer. And and and provides everything with proofs. So yeah, I I I'm still very much into this, because I think this is where it really makes sense if even normal users access thing access chain data with proofs...

**[28:36] SPEAKER_03:** Right, right. And there was a project called Portal as well. Were you involved with Portal? That was a later...

**[28:42] SPEAKER_01:** Kind of like client? No, I wasn't. Uh, so Portal was a uh Piper Merriam's brainchild. And uh yeah. So uh so by the time uh we kind of realized that uh LES was a nice first experiment, but maybe not the best approach. Uh he he started uh like something different that was a UDP based. And and and and also like use different topologies. So it uh it was kind of a DHT uh approach to storing the chain and the state. And yeah, actually uh I'm kind of uh like I I I think it's it's it's a bad thing that uh it's been completely canceled. Because uh well, actually to be honest, I never really believed that uh that it will be a easily solvable problem to store the Merkle Patricia Trie of the state right on the DHT. But for the chain data, yeah, it made perfect sense. So yeah, uh maybe maybe the state would have been possible with a lot of work, but yeah, I mean Piper told me a few times about how he imagines the order to solve all the uh unsolvable problems. And I felt like yeah, sounds good, but he just made a lot of uh really hard assumptions about DHT. Is that I by the time I I already worked on Discovery v5. So there was also this discovery protocol that uh uh basically we designed it in uh 2016 in Berlin with Felix. And uh I released the original version. And um yeah, so so I already knew that uh yeah, it's it's never so easy to imagine like a DHT that's that's efficiently formed, that all the nodes are working. And yeah, like this uh. So but but for the for the for the chain data, right, especially uh with uh EIP-4444. So like like uh that uh lets the main protocol, the nodes processing main protocol, uh forget the all chain history, right. So it it it made perfect sense to at least uh put the chain history on a DHT. Yeah. But uh yeah, so it was an EF decision that it was discontinued uh uh at points. Well, I mean I guess the thing is...

**[31:06] SPEAKER_03:** You know, Patricia Merkle trees are not great for, you know, the number of accesses and things anyway. Let alone if you're making each of those steps over a networked, you know, uh DHT kind of setup. That's yeah, there's a lot of it's so much transactional change, yeah, complexity. State tree suffers from a...

**[31:32] SPEAKER_01:** Lot of issues, especially in America. Patricia state tree. Yeah. And yeah, it's it's it's it's a huge data set that uh keeps changing all the time. And keeps changing it's completely random places, yeah. And it's it's it's not as easy it is task to distribute it, right. So actually it's uh it's it's getting harder to even synchronize it between the full nodes or in the entire state. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, yeah...

**[31:59] SPEAKER_03:** So um do you do you think that proofs are going to be a magic, you know, magic silver bullet here? Where uh by uh by by by having, you know, local proofs versus, you know, uh massive really redundant state machines? Do you think, do you think there's a path here where oh oh yeah, no, it's not a silver bullet. So...

**[32:24] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, so uh I assume you mean what people call statelessness. Uh, so it's it's a good thing. It uh it it allows uh definitely allows a higher degree of scaling. But the state tree still has to be processed and maintained by someone. And especially if most of the most of the nodes have no incentive to to process it. Yeah. And uh and it and yeah, now we are talking about a hundred decks and thousand x scaling, then uh then then even even if we also do uh state expiry, which is currently imagined in a way that we basically reset the state tree every year or something. And yeah, and have multiple state trees. So yeah, that has somewhat. But if we scale a thousand x, then it will be a huge infrastructural centralization issue, right. And uh yeah, by the way, I I I I this this this thing is is is not an unsolvable problem. I mean, I mean the the the state as it works today, yeah, unfortunately somehow makes it really hard to do any fundamental improvements over these properties. But uh people are considering uh uh like uh different storage architectures. Yeah, of course we have to keep the existing contracts workable, because that was our like main promise from the beginning, right. But we will not just shut down anything. Yeah, everything has 100 uptime. But uh it is, so it is, it is, it is, it is a viable way to uh come up with the more efficient storage methods. And use it as an opt-in alternative that will over time be available for much less. And new contracts can be designed using those more efficient uh storage...

**[34:26] SPEAKER_03:** Architectures. Yeah, because Verkle trees seem to be the first sort of thought on that. But then those yeah, that's kind of come and gone. And maybe it's a binary tree, or actually it does either...

**[34:40] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, uh, so important either. I mean, I mean, I mean uh both are better than the Merkle Patricia tree, yeah. But uh in some ways. But uh they don't solve this fundamental issue by themselves. So still the thing is that the state is a permanent key value store. Uh, and uh in order to uh avoid it growing forever, uh yeah, there's all these these ideas about uh state expiry. But still it's it's it's it's it's it's it's going to be a huge data set. And uh and the method of hashing or or like uh consensus represent protocol representation uh doesn't fundamentally change this. So Verkle uh was supposed to provide more efficient Merkle proofs, but also I guess somewhat more expensive state processing, because it's like more expensive cryptography, right. Also uh if I'm correct, it's not quantum secure. So right, right. And that was also a thing that where I I always felt like yeah, I'm not sure if it's a good idea to start working from now. And I just saw it in front of my eyes how it's going to be canceled. And um yeah, so yeah, I mean uh guess...

**[36:04] SPEAKER_03:** For running nodes in general, you know, there's not a lot of incentive for people to run any kind of like node software themselves, unless they are, you know, a validator, or, you know, you're running an exchange or a business. And you you know, you need your, you know, back end to that. Uh, you know, I guess the the vision of that there was at the start of like, well yeah, everyone will be running their own node. And you you so you've got Mist on top of it, and you know, it's it's local apps, you know. And then that that can have Swarm for the smart contracts, and you know, you it's almost like you won't have server architecture because everyone's running a server stack. And then yeah, that that did not happen...

**[36:47] SPEAKER_01:** Actually, actually that's so that's why uh we are also stuck with the with the JSON-RPC API, which doesn't provide proofs, except for it get proofs, but doesn't provide proofs for a lot of things. Because um because it was never meant to be used remotely. It was always imagined that yeah, it's used locally in a trusted setup on your own machine. And yeah, and yeah, I remember all those good old days when I just uh synced up a full node, it was a few gigabytes of disk space, and ran Mist on top of it. And yeah, all the it's magic. But uh yeah, unfortunately uh it didn't scale. So no, no, at the uh Museum of...

**[37:29] SPEAKER_03:** Ethereum. Here, I've I've got uh laptops uh running Geth 1.36, so Home, Homestead Geth. And I uh I I mind Homestead back to life. So um, you know, any any hard fork that happens, the other the old one doesn't go away, right. It doesn't disappear, it's just people don't associate any economic value with it, and it kind of gets abandoned. But yeah, what I've done is uh is is first GPU and then down to CPU mine that Homestead difficulty down to the level that you can CPU mine it again. So I do I have I have I have got Mist running on those. So we can go, we can go and transact, we can send a transaction between those. And and it should be possible to uh to run Alethzero and Alethone and Mix on that as well. I haven't had time to do that. But and and you know, ERC-20 tokens existed, you know, you could have have DAO tokens or Mist coin, yeah, at that time. But uh yeah, the the the assumption that people would run their own node, and it would all be, you know, self-sovereign local apps, certainly uh did not come to fruition. Well, yeah, so that's when the...

**[38:56] SPEAKER_01:** Light client came in. And then we assumed that okay, then we do the light client, and yeah, it will be all...

**[39:00] SPEAKER_03:** Solved. That's it. Yeah, that's what I was thinking is like, right, I've got I've got a full node running on my smartwatch that works. And I'll just wait for for you and the other guys to, you know, sort out...

**[39:11] SPEAKER_01:** Light client and just turn that on, and there we go. Well, actually the light client protocol worked fine. It's just uh yeah, I I spent like a really crazy amount of uh time figuring out uh how it could be decent uh like like incentivized in a truly decentralized way. Because uh yeah, I remember this uh there was this idealism that that uh yeah, now now we are almost done with everything. So we just have to find a real proper way for incentivizing things, but not in a way that there's a few companies where you can buy like tokens, but truly in a decentralized way, which is much harder. Because yeah, then we have to somehow this build decentralized trust, and and and figure out market mechanisms that work without initial trust. So yeah, uh this is something I spent years with. And honestly, I think I came up with some nice theoretical models and a lot of really complex code. But uh yeah, it's just uh again was like the wrong approach, maybe also at the wrong time. So we were just not there, really. Yeah, because I mean...

**[40:29] SPEAKER_03:** BitTorrent has obviously worked for distributing uh content for many many years. But then you you do have this tragedy of the commons, right. Is uh yes, the latest Hollywood movie, someone has ripped it off, and people want that, so that's going to get shared around, no problem. But things which are only of interest to a smaller number of people without incentives, it's just a a leeching problem, right. You kind of good good full node runners would would contribute, you know, they'll turn on the LES as well, right. They would help supply that. But the incentives and economics are that uh not easy.Yeah, actually with BitTorrent it...

**[41:16] SPEAKER_01:** Also uh usually if you really want to use it, it requires trackers that where you buy some some some some some priority access. So right, there are these these these private trackers and everything. Yeah. So yeah, uh uh and and those are this is also like not uh completely decentralized. But actually it does work, so it's it's it's it's definitely better than nothing. But uh for for LES it wasn't really this easy, because this whole service was uh like uh downloading movies was was an application that everyone understood, that everybody used. And uh somehow with Ethereum, it was always this yeah, everyone felt the importance, but if you're nowhere near close to like like like a really mature ecosystem. And uh and so so it was just I don't think there would have been a big enough market really for these services to so that to really work out in a market-based way. Yeah. But uh as we as a scale, and uh accessing the whole dataset is uh becomes more and more difficult, at a certain point I think we are going to have something like reimagined several years ago. So yeah, it's it's just uh both like timing and specifics. Yeah, I was I was I was right about everything except timing and specifics. Yeah. Yes, yes. Yeah. Uh, I mean there are a number of...

**[42:51] SPEAKER_03:** Things that that seemed like they would be easy and quick and obvious, and have taken so many years. I mean like like proof of stake, you know. The it was in the white paper, there was an assumption, you know, later in 2015, that'll happen, you know, within six months, maybe three six months. Um, and then it's it's eight years before, you know, it actually went live. And uh and yeah, I mean on storage, so Filecoin, their first white paper was in 2014 as well, you know. Filecoin was not a a new thing. Um, and IPFS was around before Ethereum as well. Um, but uh and then yeah, Whisper kind of went for a while. And then now there's there's there's um and and and you'd have you've had Status driving a lot of those texts for a lot of those years as well, you know. Jarrad Hope and team, uh who were also doing uh Android version of the the Java client, you know, the same kind of time as I was looking at smart watches. You yeah, Jarrad Hope was also very...

**[44:06] SPEAKER_01:** Eagerly waiting for for for like the fully functional like client. Yeah, yeah. Well...

**[44:12] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. Because you know, they were building kind of decentralized WeWork, you know, super app. But I I guess, you know, kind of a competitor to to Mist, really similar kind of thing, you know, wanting to have a uh you know, a container for running uh dApps in sitting on top of a local client. Again, you know, having this completely self-sovereign kind of server app stack, but not not easy. And I can't remember who it was that was telling me that. So when they first saw MetaMask, uh which was at Devcon One, that was one of the grantee winners, was was MetaMask. Them thinking, "No, we that's not what we want. We we don't want like, you know, some browser extension thing talking to a trusted endpoint. Like that's absolutely the opposite. Like what what are these guys doing?" And then that's, you know, that's become the standard flow, right. Well, yeah. So...

**[45:18] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, this is this is still kind of an unsolved problem, too, right? To to access access uh everything in a truly decentralized way. But uh I think we are getting there over time. It's just yeah, nothing nothing is as simple as we initially imagined. And also uh there's a time for everything. And I think uh uh through uh through decentralized uh uh infrastructure will be forced by scaling. And things sometimes just doesn't happen if they are not forced by some some some uh circumstance, some fact, some external factor. So yeah, as long as it's the late, it works in a lazy way to just uh yeah, connect MetaMask to Infura. Yeah, until then, it's it's the standard way. Yeah, yeah. So I I think...

**[46:15] SPEAKER_03:** I found two different talks of yours at Devcons, uh talking really about like climb. Do you remember, did you...

**[46:22] SPEAKER_01:** Talk in London, or was Shanghai your first? No, I talked at uh London, also Shanghai, and also uh also in uh in Cancun. Yeah, so those were the first two Devcons that were mostly about the light client. Uh, so they actually uh the first release of the light client protocol was in 16. So so it was around that time. And later, I I I already started to like invent all like all the next uh chapters of of decentralized technology. And yeah, it was really naive of me. But uh but I I I also had this this this project back then, where I uh where I started to try to make uh logs uh provable efficiently. And uh yeah, that was so so so so the initial attempt uh for that was in 2017. And now I'm back at it. Now I'm also like have I also have this trustless log index project. Yeah. And yeah, so so the this this this this all the approaches 2017, that was just a more efficient uh way to organize the bloom filters. But it didn't really solve the problem of of the bloom filters not adapting to yeah to the number of events. And also uh never I never even proposed uh it uh putting it into consensus, which would have allowed the uh actual trustless proofs through the chain, right. So yeah, uh that that also proved to be a a hard problem. But yeah, this is one of the things what I presented in Cancun. Right, right. Oh, yeah. And also some kind of um my my ideas of uh of of of uh state channels. So back then we didn't have uh like L2s in a way. So actually back then Layer Two just meant something that happens off chain, not necessarily another blockchain. Yeah. And yeah, so uh yeah, so yeah, I I had these ideas about uh individual nodes running all running their own blockchains, and somehow uh organizing some off chain calculations through that. But yeah, it's also like assumed a lot about uh how how how those would operate, and probably would...

**[48:50] SPEAKER_03:** Have never worked. Yeah, it's a suspect. Right. Yeah. So yeah, I mean we had state channels, and then we had Plasma. Um, and then eventually coming into Optimistic Rollups, and then ZK later. Just many many different attempts. Hello, see you, sir. Great to see you. Okay. Um, so um so yeah, I mean I I guess there's an awful lot of learning, right. Uh 10 years worth of lots of people trying lots of different things. Um, so I mean in terms of the Geth team, has that been similar over the years? Or have you had, you know, larger and smaller amounts of people? Has it been a similar kind of flow through that time, uh...

**[49:36] SPEAKER_01:** I would say it was uh pretty consistently around 10 people throughout all these years. Uh, sometimes eight, nine, sometimes 11, 12. But really like in this this range. We did improve our internal processes during the years. So yeah, now now we we we do have do have like uh all this this uh uh issue and pull request triages. And and yeah, but but really it's it's it's it's been um mostly mostly mostly uh that team was also always small enough so that we didn't need a lot of uh processes. Right, right. Honestly, the team culture, yeah, it did obviously change, especially with with certain people coming and going. But it also also I would say it was always always a good team culture. I I I I I always like the Geth team. That's also why I never really looked into uh moving to other teams or other projects, because I felt that uh that team is the best place to right do do meaningful...

**[50:54] SPEAKER_03:** Things. Um, yeah, I mean it's it it it's funny, because from the very start of Ethereum, the intention was to have multiple clients, right. That was a very basic decision of saying we want a separation between the specification and the implementation, right. Because we don't want it to be like Bitcoin, where you've got one code base, and then like there's no like competition, there's no uh you know, well yeah...

**[51:21] SPEAKER_01:** For Bitcoin's complexity, that approach worked. But for Ethereum's complexity, I would say this was one of the the best decisions. Uh, yeah, it also contributed to almost running out of uh money by the time we launched mainnet. But I would say it was money well wasted. So yes, no, I I I would agree. It was not...

**[51:43] SPEAKER_03:** Efficient, but the outcome was very much worthwhile. Yeah. And uh when we switched to proof of stake, uh...

**[51:52] SPEAKER_01:** We we we we again successfully applied this pattern, by running by by by funding multiple CL implementations. And then testing every EL against every CL. Yeah, and then yes, that's that's with all the combinations...

**[52:08] SPEAKER_03:** Five. Is it five different primary consensus clients? There are, I think it's five, yeah. Um, and and yeah, notably none of those were within the Foundation either. They were all independent companies and teams. So I mean on the execution side, there have been, you know, a good number of different alternative execution clients over the years. So I mean, how how do you tended to like work and interact in that kind of environment, where you've got all these different, you know, I guess starting with Parity, um, and then Besu, and Nevermind, Aragon. So how how how how do you work with other teams? Well, uh we we have now...

**[52:58] SPEAKER_01:** We we have have all the uh uh ACD calls and testing calls. So so so mostly uh I mean I mean we all do have working clients all the time. So by default, we don't need to interact a lot. We have to interact when we are testing out new features, yeah. There are there are the prepare forums for that. So yeah, and uh oh, it's it's also some people uh keep more contacts outside of the Geth team. Some people are more turning inwards, and then just focusing on on Geth issues. Yeah, but but uh actually I think in the first years, communication was really not organized as well. So we really just uh uh try to figure out things. And and some people knew some people from the other teams. And yeah, but um actually these days uh we have much better uh processes for this. Also, it's a much much bigger challenge, because there's so many more people. Actually, this this is also something I realized during the time we really started working on proof of stake. So uh in uh 2017, it was the first time Ether price went to more several thousand dollars. And yeah, the Foundation had had had money to hire right new teams, and found external teams. And uh I remember that uh until uh 2017, I mostly met non-go-ethereum people mostly at Devcons, right. Yeah, yeah. And uh maybe those people who lived in Berlin or one of those cities where there were multiple people, they they met more people. But I I I I I was always in Hungary and worked remotely. And uh yeah, I I I mostly met most of the people at Devcons. Yeah. But uh around I think I think it was a uh 2018, when right so many like researchers and and and uh have been hired. And and there were also the the CL teams. And I remember uh Devcon 4 at Prague. Yeah, it was so until then it was mostly uh I don't know how many people exactly, but I do remember it's maybe for 30, 40 people, I don't know. Uh, after every Devcon, yeah, we stood up at the main stage and the group photo. Oh, yeah, we are the Ethereum Foundation. Yes. Like it was that many people. Yeah. And and and and in in 18, I I just I was just shocked. Like, who the hell are all these people? The whole Ethereum Foundation. Yeah. So yeah, it was it became a much bigger challenge. But also now we we do have all these official forums. And also uh I try to uh go to more uh events, not just Devcons. So yeah, in order to keep all the contacts live. Yeah...

**[56:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. So I mean, looking back to when you first started working on Ethereum, did you have any kind of thought or vision of what things might have looked like 10 years later? Like, it has it worked out as you expected, or differently? Or what what's what's your looking back on these 10 years? What's...

**[56:24] SPEAKER_01:** Your your thought? I always had a lot of visions, yeah. I I maybe maybe maybe I was to uh focus on vision sometimes at uh yeah. So the thing is that we all kind of have to imagine the future at every point, even though we know we can't imagine it as it will turn out. Yes, it never turns out exactly the way we want. But uh we always have to have some kind of direction, and we have to just have ideas of how things can turn out. So yeah, around like uh to 2017, I also realized that uh scaling will not not happen just with L1. So yeah, uh we I also had this this, as I mentioned, had these ideas about how how we could solve problems more efficiently with with not even rollups, just uh like application specific uh state channels and stuff like that. Yeah, but uh but it also also also also like there was this really great project. Uh, uh, uh, oh, okay, I don't yeah, right then Raiden. Yeah, thank you, thank you. So uh so so yeah, they properly implemented the protocol and everything. Yeah, I think it has always struggled with like not many people using it. So it's it's it's it's like there's a problem. It's it's it's it's it's a pain. It's a pain that the transactions are expensive. But still somehow uh maybe we just missed some organizing force to uh to to to to to really move to uh to uh some kind of Layer Two solutions. Yeah, and...

**[58:08] SPEAKER_03:** And it was just yeah, yeah. Uh, well, it was meant to be Lightning for Ethereum, right. That was the thought. Well, yeah, it was pretty much uh that idea. But then Lightning's kind of failed. So maybe not surprising if uh if an Ethereum version of that's not really got. Because you know, you have you've got routing issues, right. It's really complicated. Yes, the channels seem to work great for uh consistent static topographies, you know, if you want to do merchant to merchant, that like...

**[58:44] SPEAKER_01:** Channels work great. Yeah. But opening those channels is still uh costly and non-trivial. And uh yeah, it's just uh I also never really uh I I installed it, I tried it. I okay, this is interesting. But yeah, I never really uh made a payment through Raiden, because there was just no occasion where the other party...

**[59:11] SPEAKER_03:** Uh really uh really wanted Raiden transfer. No, no. Well, thank you very much. I think we we can wrap it up there. Okay, so so thanks for your time. And uh thanks for all of your work on Geth over these very many years. You know, Geth has always really been the backbone of Ethereum, you know. New clients, you know, come and go, but Geth, Geth remains. Yeah. Uh, so thank you. Thank you for having me here. Okay...

**[59:41] SPEAKER_00:** Thank you. You...

**[59:41] SPEAKER_03:** You, you...

**[59:41] SPEAKER_UNKNOWN:** You, you, you, you, you.