**[00:01] SPEAKER_03:** So hello and welcome to f denver 2026. Here recording for early days of Ethereum with Zolt Felfeldy. How do you pronounce your name? Jolt Jolt there you go. Anyway, so yeah, I was working out when we were recently reconnected at DevConnect, and I was working out that you're the third longest person at the Ethereum Foundation, right? You've got Vitalik and then Felix and then you. Yeah, I haven't really checked this fact yet, but honestly, yeah, it sounds great. So I mean, you're a very long-time member of the Geth team. Yes, but what were you doing before you started at the foundation? What was your background? How did you find your way into the blockchain world?

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Well, before Ethereum, I was working on really different types of projects. So, I started first at a Hungarian software company, like really classic software company. We actually sold softwares in boxes, like on a shelf, discs, like floppy disks, put in a box on a shelf, and you can buy the software. So, like, five and a quarter inch floppies, yeah, actually three and a half. We're on to modern floppies. Yeah, but maybe also like, like, in '97, so maybe I was exaggerating a little. So by that time, it was mostly CDs, but we still used a lot of floppies. Anyway, at that company, I did things related to computer graphics, like I brought a ray tracing engine for some architectural software, and then I also did a lot of work on electronic circuit simulation and circuit design. Right. So, yeah, really different things. And it was around 2011 when I first heard about Bitcoin, and around 2012 when I started to realize that, as weird as it sounds, it really is probably a big thing. And I first heard about Ethereum early 2014, a few months after the initial paper was published. Yeah, and I started contributing around November and officially joined EF in March 2015.

**[03:02] SPEAKER_03:** Did you hear about it through Danny and Victor or some other way?

**[03:10] SPEAKER_01:** I heard about it from Danny and Victor's friend circle. So, right, yeah, but then Victor was already actually working on it. And then Victor came to Hungary and said, "Oh, I'm already working on this," and then I started explaining to him why this thing probably will never work. And he was like, "Okay, you seem to have a good understanding of this. Why don't you come to work?"

**[03:52] SPEAKER_03:** Right, right, right. So, yeah, and was I right in thinking that you said it was Swarm that you started with?

**[03:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so Swarm was part of the initial trinity of base technologies of Ethereum. It was supposed to be the storage layer for dApps. Yeah, it was kind of a naive way of how people imagined decentralized applications back then, but honestly, it made sense at the time. So, I will say that nothing ever turned out exactly the way people imagined it, but we are still making a lot of progress. So, yeah, Swarm was how we initially imagined the storage layer for Ethereum, and this project still has merits, but the whole problem space is just a bit more complex. So, I started contributing to Swarm first and actually brought the first 500 lines.

**[05:02] SPEAKER_03:** Of Swarm. There you go. Yeah, I think if I remember rightly, Victor mentioned around May 2014 was when he first heard about the trinity, that you could have Ethereum as your compute, an expensive database, Swarm as your decentralized storage, and then Whisper as your messaging. There's that famous diagram with the circle and things coming in and Whisper going around the edge. And there's another one of those. But yeah, I mean, I guess it was DevCon Zero where Danny really presented a fleshed-out vision of what that decentralized storage could be.

**[05:51] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, that's correct. I wasn't there at DevCon Zero yet, so I heard about this idea even before I heard about Ethereum. So, Danny already told me about this idea that he wants to do this kind of hash-based chunk storage. And it made total sense that it could fit in. So, he pitched this idea at DevCon Zero, and when they accepted it and hired Danny, then Danny called me and said, "Because he already knew that I knew of this project, let's do it together." So, there you go. And then you were hired into the Ethereum Foundation.

**[06:40] SPEAKER_03:** Yes, I did have a date for that. I've forgotten. I guess it was shortly after DevCon Zero, right, that you started there?

**[06:45] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, correct. I went to Amsterdam in February 2015, where I met Jeffrey Wilker, the creator of Go Ethereum, and the Go Ethereum team back then. I don't say Geth because that abbreviation was invented later. So, yeah, that's where I met the Go Ethereum people. And I already had these contributions to Swarm, and it was kind of an implied thing that maybe I might be hired. But there was really no official hiring process back then. So, yeah, it was really just Jeff being a really laid-back guy and saying, "Okay, okay, man, I saw your contributions. Let's talk sometime this week." And I waited the whole week, waiting for some serious interview, like it was a dream job for me. But by that time, I was really enthusiastic about this whole thing. And even though I felt that the initial design was, yeah, I couldn't really imagine how it would scale and everything, it was still worth starting. And I was really enthusiastic and wanted to get hired. And I waited the whole week, and at the end of the week, like the last half-hour before we all left, Jeff just said, "Oh, yeah, when I wanted to talk to you, you're hired." So, that's how the hiring process went back then.

**[08:47] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, that's easy. We like that. So, you went to Amsterdam after you had been hired, right?

**[09:07] SPEAKER_01:** No, no, no. I went to Amsterdam unhired on-site. So, I bought my own plane ticket, but I could stay at the Airbnb where the whole team stayed. And I just worked with them and showed my contributions. So, I went to Amsterdam unhired, but yeah, it was like an implied thing that maybe I might be hired.

**[09:29] SPEAKER_03:** Right, so that plane ticket was a good investment.

**[09:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so they didn't have office space at that point. Well, they did have an Amsterdam office back then. It was mostly for Jeff because Jeff lived in Amsterdam. But when Jeff left, or maybe before that, I'm not sure exactly, but the office was closed. And actually, it was a really small office. The last time I checked, it's now a dentist office. So, yeah, it doesn't exist anymore. But it was really just a small place. But later, I went to Berlin a lot after I was hired. And for the Geth team, it was really centered in Berlin somehow.

**[10:27] SPEAKER_03:** You've got Bas, right? He was another Amsterdam person, right?

**[10:41] SPEAKER_01:** Sorry, not in Amsterdam. I mean, yeah, no one else was quite as distributed. Bas was there for a short time, and Jeff also left after a while and started his own company.

**[10:57] SPEAKER_03:** Right, to develop games or something. So, though he did have F Labs, do you know anything about F Labs because when Jeff worked with JPMorgan to do Quorum, that was announced under the label F Labs. Never heard of that.

**[11:20] SPEAKER_01:** I think I heard the name, but I didn't really know what it does. But I knew that Jeff started working with JPMorgan back then. And at that time, big banks really wanted to talk to us at every DevCon. We were always invited to fancy dinners by some main people. So, banks really wanted to learn about the technology.

**[11:56] SPEAKER_03:** Somehow get in contact with Jeff. I guess it's a little bit of a mystery what exactly F Labs was. Though I suspect it might be a little bit like Ethosphere, just being a name, a banner for activities rather than a legal entity. And another thing I don't know is, I don't think Jeff told Ming that he was doing that stuff with JPM. I suspect that he completely just did that on his own without any communication with Ming or the EF.

**[12:34] SPEAKER_01:** Well, actually, he never really told us a lot about that. So, right, we knew that he was working with JPMorgan, but probably, like it's a big bank, he had to sign a contract on disclosure agreement, so he probably couldn't share all the details. No, I mean, I remember at some point, him saying he found it interesting because the consensus for that was on-chain. Like, the consensus for that was happening as smart contracts. So, it was kind of almost like this pluggable consensus, but consensus pulled up into the app layer. So, he found that quite interesting. The initial Quorum consensus didn't last long, but I think Gav also did some proof of authority stuff before that happened on the Geth side, before Clique. He made a different C++ client, which was like pulling all the libraries in the same, but it was with a proof of authority consensus. But he did that, which was one of the last things he did before he went out to Parity. So, I think both him and Jeff were interested in how you can formulate these pieces in different ways for those kinds of use cases.

**[14:44] SPEAKER_01:** And actually, there wasn't really an exact date when Jeff left. So, basically, a month after I joined, Peter Szilagyi joined, and he was the team lead for a very long time. So, Jeff basically handed it over to Peter. And for a while, he was officially still the team lead, but not really. We hadn't seen him on the calls for a while.

**[15:13] SPEAKER_03:** No, so the date I found was February 2017, but I think I got that from GitHub. I think that was like his final commit, but he probably tailed off before that. He was already focusing on other stuff, like this Forum stuff and then his own things sometime in 2016. So, yeah, he started a company called Grid Games with his brother, just building a particular game, but that also seems to have ceased. So, yeah, he's unknown off in the world somewhere.

**[15:52] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, that's pretty much all I know about him. We tried to invite him a few times to come to some event and meet up, but yeah, I think for some reasons, he really had enough of maybe not us, but the things going on in the EF. And yeah, when Ming came in, she both did legal tidy-up but also cut the spending a lot. You know, you had the crowd sale in July, August, September 2014, but coming up to the mainnet release a year later, like nearly all the money was gone. Yes, they spent it very fast. So, that's why DevCon One was postponed because of that. And but we didn't really feel a lot of this actually. Jeff just said that now that Ether price is so low, actually, I think the lowest point was 42 cents, and for a full year, it didn't really move. And Jeff just said, "Okay, we all have to take a pay cut." But the pay cut was really just 10 percent, and I think maybe he took a bigger one. So, for us, it was really not that bad. And the idea was that when Ether price reaches two dollars, then we do have some go back, some money to go forward. So, then our salaries went back up. And it wasn't a lot of time. So, actually, for me, I don't really remember the price history, and maybe it's not the most important thing, but I think Ethereum reached something like 10 dollars pretty soon, like in early 2016. And we went even a little bit higher, but then we had the DAO fork and the Shanghai attacks. But given how turbulent those times were, the markets helped pretty well. So, yeah, with 10 dollars of Ether, we could survive further.

**[18:18] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I mean, that was quite a jump up. I heard that at the worst point, there was only four months of runway left. You know, that's how close it was to running out of money. But yeah, there were those big cuts, which really resulted in, like, Gavin and the C++ team being the main kind of victims of those cuts. But then, yeah, just into 2016, I was hired in February 2016, the same time as Greg Colvin came in, and also Pavel was rehired. You know, he was working through IMAP, working on that JIT, but that contract stopped, but then he came back at that time as well. So, it was this period through late 2015 to early 2016 that was like, you know, the absolute bottom of like, are we even going to ship this thing? Are we going to run out of money before we get to mainnet? But then, yeah, some of us were really coming in as backfill for that C++ team. So, I mean, DevCon One was sort of postponed, but then Consensus came in and actually paid for it and said, "Hey, we'll mainly organize it and kind of make sure the thing can happen." So, that was the big first public event. What are your memories of DevCon One?

**[19:55] SPEAKER_01:** My subjective impression was that it was really amazing compared to today's DevCons. It was small. I think three hundred something people, maybe less than a thousand. And it was in a really prestigious venue, some old bank building or Threadneedle Street in the City of London. And I really felt like, okay, so now this is really a serious thing. And probably that was the reason why Consensus stepped in and funded the event, so we could really step up in terms of public appearance and appear as something really serious. And yeah, I remember like all the big banks having a booth at DevCon One. And Microsoft was the headline sponsor. It was like, wow, right? Recognition that Microsoft is interested and supportive.

**[20:59] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, it was like, wow, right? Like recognition that Microsoft is interested and supportive. And yeah, I mean, I think for a lot of people, it was a real kind of wow moment, like this is for real. Sadly, I couldn't afford to go. I watched the live stream. I wasn't quite in and working yet. I was an enthusiastic contributor, but yeah.

**[21:34] SPEAKER_01:** Actually, it was also the first time for me when I met a larger number of Ethereum people. I first met the Go Ethereum team in early 2015, and I went to Amsterdam one more time, I think in May. But DevCon One was the place where I really realized how big this thing is. And it's really not just about client developers, but even back then, people presented about formal verification and all this stuff. So, I realized that it's really big, and probably everyone wants to be a part of it.

**[22:20] SPEAKER_03:** At least a little bit. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I mean, looking back at DevCon One videos, it's like any kind of use case you could think of. There was somebody presenting about it. So early, more than 10 years ago, but many concepts which were probably massively too early to do, but maybe you can do them all now, seem to be presented. You had Nick Szabo as well, Nick Szabo doing a keynote.

**[23:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, Nick Szabo was also there. So, was that maybe the first time that you'd met a number of the people in Berlin, like Christoph Jentzsch and Gavin?

**[23:24] SPEAKER_03:** No, so was DevCon One the first time that you'd been to do Ethereum things in London, or did you go to any sort of London meetups or meet any of those community people earlier?

**[23:39] SPEAKER_01:** I didn't go to any meetups in London before, but actually, Victor was in London at the time. And I went to London around the time when I was doing some event with my old software company, the Hungarian software company. So, I went to London to sell our software, and after that, I met up with Victor and talked about things because he had seen Gavin talk in London in very early February, I think it was February 6th, almost immediately after they had the Miami launch, Vitalik's first public talk, and Anthony Di Iorio's mansion where a lot of them met for the first time. Gavin had been back in London, I think it was like a week after, and did a talk there that Victor had gone to. That was Victor's first in-person meeting with any of these people, and then Gavin had pulled him on board.

**[25:22] SPEAKER_01:** Those were the very early days. I wasn't there. So, when I first heard about Ethereum, it was March or April 2014. I first heard about the pre-sale, and yeah, that's where I first heard about this thing. But I know that Gavin was one of the very early founders of this and wrote the Yellow Paper, full of Greek letters.

**[25:51] SPEAKER_03:** Very confusing. And the C++ client, of course. So, the first time I think I saw your name or was in contact with you was about the light client because I'd been trying to get Ethereum ARM Linux cross-builds running on my smartwatch. And my thought was, get the thing running, and then this light client stuff is just kind of starting, and scaling will be solved. We're going to be able to run these nodes on anything, you know, on your phone, smartwatch, router. They'll be in every operating system. You know, we'll solve that scaling and lightness. So, you were plunged right into that problem.

**[26:38] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so when Jeff hired me, he put me on this project. He said, "Okay, it's great that you contributed to Swarm, but if you join the Geth team, you will have to start working on the light client because it's a very important thing and it hasn't been started yet." So, I felt really good about it. I also felt like this is a big thing. Back then, it really felt like we do these few things, we have a working light client protocol, and then the whole Ethereum base layer will be good. But it wasn't that easy. But still, those were the first steps. So, I designed the LES protocol. In retrospect, it didn't make a lot of sense to build it over the DevP2P layer because it wasn't easy to access from web browsers and stuff. But also, it was a proof-of-work-based light client. So, that project ended after a while, but I'm still very much into trustless chain access. That's usually been one of my focuses all the time. Right now, I'm also working on something called the Trustless Execution Layer API, which is similar to the Beacon REST API but works on the execution layer and provides everything with proofs. So, I'm still very much into this because I think it makes sense if even normal users access chain data with proofs.

**[28:36] SPEAKER_03:** Right, right. And there was a project called Portal as well. Were you involved with Portal?

**[28:42] SPEAKER_01:** No, I wasn't. So, Portal was Piper Marion's brainchild. By the time we realized that LES was a nice first experiment but maybe not the best approach, he started something different that was UDP-based and used different topologies. It was kind of a DHT approach to storing the chain and the state. Actually, I think it's a bad thing that it was completely canceled because, well, to be honest, I never really believed that it would be an easily solvable problem to store the Merkle Patricia trie of the state right on the DHT. But for the chain data, it made perfect sense. So, maybe the state would have been possible with a lot of work, but yeah, I mean, Piper told me a few times about how he imagines solving all the unsolvable problems, and I felt like, yeah, it sounds good, but he made a lot of really hard assumptions about DHTs that I already worked on Discovery v5. So, there was also this discovery protocol that we designed in 2016 in Berlin with Felix, and I released the original version. So, I already knew that it's never so easy to imagine a DHT that's efficiently formed and all the nodes are working. But for the chain data, especially with EIP-4444, which lets the main protocol nodes forget all chain history, it made perfect sense to at least put the chain history on a DHT. But it was an EF decision that it was discontinued.

**[31:06] SPEAKER_03:** You know, Patricia Merkle trees are not great for the number of accesses and things anyway, let alone if you're making each of those steps over a networked DHT kind of setup. There's so much transactional change. The state tree suffers from a lot of issues, especially in America. Patricia state tree.

**[31:32] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, the state tree still has to be processed and maintained by someone, and especially if most of the nodes have no incentive to process it. And yeah, now we're talking about a hundred decks and thousand X scaling. Then even if we also do state expiry, which is currently imagined in a way that we basically reset the state tree every year or something and have multiple state trees, it somewhat helps, but if we scale a thousand X, it will be a huge infrastructural centralization issue. But by the way, I don't think this is an unsolvable problem. The state as it works today unfortunately somehow makes it really hard to do any fundamental improvements over these properties. But people are considering different storage architectures. Of course, we have to keep the existing contracts workable because that was our main promise from the beginning. We will not just shut down anything. Everything has 100% uptime. But it is a viable way to come up with more efficient storage methods and use it as an opt-in alternative that will over time be available for much less, and new contracts can be designed using those more efficient storage architectures.

**[34:26] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, because vertical trees seem to be the first sort of thought on that, but then those kind of came and went, and maybe it's a binary tree or actually it does either.

**[34:40] SPEAKER_01:** Both are better than the Merkle Patricia tree in some ways, but they don't solve this fundamental issue by themselves. The state is a permanent key-value store, and in order to avoid it growing forever, there are all these ideas about state expiry. But still, it's going to be a huge data set, and the method of hashing or consensus representation protocol doesn't fundamentally change this. So, Vertical was supposed to provide more efficient Merkle proofs but also, I guess, somewhat more expensive state processing because it's like more expensive cryptography. Also, if I'm correct, it's not quantum secure. So, that was also a thing where I always felt like, yeah, I'm not sure if it's a good idea to start working on it now, and I just saw it in front of my eyes how it's going to be canceled.

**[36:04] SPEAKER_03:** For running nodes in general, there's not a lot of incentive for people to run any kind of node software themselves unless they are a validator or you're running an exchange or a business and you need your backend to that. You know, I guess the vision at the start was that everyone will be running their own node, and you have Mist on top of it, and it's local apps, and then you have Swarm for the smart contracts, and it's almost like you won't have a server architecture because everyone's running a server stack. But that didn't happen.

**[36:47] SPEAKER_01:** Actually, that's why we're also stuck with the JSON-RPC API, which doesn't provide proofs except for `eth_getProof`, but it doesn't provide proofs for a lot of things because it was never meant to be used remotely. It was always imagined that it's used locally in a trusted setup on your own machine. And yeah, I remember all those good old days when I just synced up a full node. It was a few gigabytes of disk space, and I ran Mist on top of it. And yeah, all the magic, but unfortunately, it didn't scale. So, no, at the Museum of Ethereum here, I've got laptops running Geth 1.3.6, so Homestead Geth, and I've got Homestead back to life. So, any hard fork that happens, the old one doesn't go away. It doesn't disappear. It's just that people don't associate any economic value with it, and it kind of gets abandoned. But yeah, what I've done is first GPU and then down to CPU mining Homestead difficulty down to the level that you can CPU mine it again. So, I do have Mist running on those, and we can go and transact, send a transaction between those, and it should be possible to run Aleth0 and Aleth1 and Mix on that as well. I haven't had time to do that, but ERC-20 tokens existed back then. You could have DAO tokens or Mist coin. But yeah, the assumption that people would run their own node and it would all be self-sovereign local apps certainly did not come to fruition. Well, yeah, that's when the light client came in, and then we assumed that okay, then we do the light client, and yeah, it will be all solved.

**[39:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, that's what I was thinking, like, right, I've got a full node running on my smartwatch. That works, and I'll just wait for you and the other guys to sort it out.

**[39:11] SPEAKER_01:** The light client protocol worked fine. It's just that I spent a really crazy amount of time figuring out how it could be incentivized in a truly decentralized way because there was this idealism that now we're almost done with everything, so we just have to find a real proper way for incentivizing things, but not in a way that there are a few companies where you can buy tokens, but truly in a decentralized way, which is much harder because then we have to somehow build decentralized trust and figure out market mechanisms that work without initial trust. So, yeah, I spent years with this and honestly came up with some nice theoretical models and a lot of really complex code, but again, it was like the wrong approach, maybe also at the wrong time. We were just not there yet because I mean

**[40:29] SPEAKER_03:** BitTorrent has obviously worked for distributing content for many, many years, but then you have this tragedy of the commons. Yes, the latest Hollywood movie, someone has ripped it off, and people want that, so it gets shared around no problem. But things which are only of interest to a smaller number of people without incentives, it's just a leeching problem. You kind of need good full node runners who would turn on LES as well, and they would help supply that, but the incentives and economics are not easy. Yeah, actually, with BitTorrent, it also usually requires trackers where you buy some priority access. So, there are these private trackers and everything. Yeah, so it's not completely decentralized, but it does work. It's definitely better than nothing. But for Ethereum, it wasn't really that easy because this whole service was like downloading movies was an application that everyone understood and used, and somehow with Ethereum, it was always felt important, but if you're nowhere near close to a really mature ecosystem, I don't think there would have been a big enough market for these services to really work out in a market-based way. But as we scale and accessing the whole dataset becomes more and more difficult, at a certain point, I think we are going to have something like reimagined several years ago. So, yeah, it's just timing and specifics. I was right about everything except timing and specifics.

**[42:51] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, there are a number of things that seemed like they would be easy and quick and obvious and have taken so many years. Like proof of stake, you know, it was in the white paper. There was an assumption that it would happen later in 2015 within six months, maybe three to six months. And then it's eight years before it actually went live. And yeah, on storage, Filecoin, their first white paper was in 2014 as well. You know, Filecoin was not a new thing. IPFS was around before Ethereum as well. But then, yeah, Whisper kind of went for a while, and now there's Status driving a lot of those texts for a lot of those years as well. You know, Jared Hope and the team were also doing the Android version of the Java client around the same time as I was looking at smartwatches. Yeah, Jared Hope was also very eager to have a fully functional light client.

**[44:06] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, he was eagerly waiting for a fully functional light client.

**[44:12] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, because they were building this kind of decentralized web app, you know, super app, but I guess a competitor to Mist, really similar kind of thing, wanting to have a container for running dApps sitting on top of a local client again, having this completely self-sovereign kind of server app stack. But it's not easy. And I can't remember who it was that was telling me that when they first saw MetaMask at DevCon One, which was one of the grant winners, they were thinking, "No, we don't want that. We don't want some browser extension thing talking to a trusted endpoint. That's absolutely the opposite of what we want." And then that's become the standard flow.

**[45:18] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, this is still kind of an unsolved problem to access everything in a truly decentralized way. But I think we are getting there over time. It's just nothing is as simple as we initially imagined, and also there's a time for everything. I think through decentralized infrastructure will be forced by scaling, and sometimes things just don't happen if they are not forced by some external factor. So, as long as it's late, it works in a lazy way to just connect MetaMask to Infura. Until then, it's the standard way.

**[46:15] SPEAKER_03:** I found two different talks of yours at DevCons talking really about the light client. Do you remember if you talked in London or was Shanghai your first?

**[46:22] SPEAKER_01:** No, I talked in London also, Shanghai, and also in Cancun. So, those were the first two DevCons that were mostly about the light client. So, they actually, the first release of the LES protocol was in 2016, so it was around that time. And later, I already started to invent all the next chapters of decentralized technology. And yeah, it was really naive of me, but I had this project back then where I started to try to make logs provable efficiently. And yeah, that was the initial attempt in 2017. And now I'm back at it with this trustless log index project. And yeah, so all the approaches in 2017 were just a more efficient way to organize the bloom filters, but it didn't really solve the problem of the bloom filters not adapting to the number of events. And also, I never even proposed putting it into consensus, which would have allowed actual trustless proofs through the chain. So, yeah, that also proved to be a hard problem. But yeah, that's one of the things I presented in Cancun. And also some of my ideas about state channels. Back then, we didn't have L2s in a way. So, actually, back then, layer two just meant something that happens off-chain, not necessarily another blockchain. And yeah, so I had these ideas about individual nodes running their own blockchains and somehow organizing some off-chain calculations through that. But yeah, it also assumed a lot about how those would operate, and probably would never have worked.

**[48:50] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, it's a suspect. Right. So, yeah, I mean, we had state channels and then we had Plasma, and then eventually coming into optimistic roll-ups and then zk later. Just many, many different attempts. Hello, see you, sir. Great to see you. Okay, um, so yeah, I mean, I guess there's an awful lot of learning. Ten years worth of lots of people trying lots of different things. I mean, in terms of the Geth team, has that been similar over the years, or have you had larger and smaller amounts of people? Has it been a similar kind of flow through that time?

**[49:36] SPEAKER_01:** I would say it was pretty consistently around 10 people throughout all these years. Sometimes eight, nine, sometimes 11, 12, but really in this range. We did improve our internal processes during the years, so now we do have all these issue and pull request triages and stuff. But really, it's been mostly a small team that didn't need a lot of processes. Honestly, the team culture was always good. I always liked the Geth team. That's also why I never really looked into moving to other teams or other projects because I felt that the team is the best place to do meaningful things.

**[50:54] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, it's funny because from the very start of Ethereum, the intention was to have multiple clients. That was a very basic decision of saying we want a separation between the specification and the implementation because we don't want it to be like Bitcoin, where you've got one code base, and there's no competition. There's no well, yeah.

**[51:21] SPEAKER_01:** For Bitcoin's complexity, that approach worked, but for Ethereum's complexity, I would say this was one of the best decisions. Yeah, it also contributed to almost running out of money by the time we launched mainnet, but I would say it was money well wasted. So, yes, no, I would agree it was not efficient, but the outcome was very much worthwhile. Yeah, and when we switched to proof of stake, we again successfully applied this pattern by funding multiple CL implementations and then testing every EL against every CL. Yeah, with all the combinations.

**[52:08] SPEAKER_03:** Five, is it five different primary consensus clients there are, I think it's five, yeah. And notably, none of those were within the foundation. They were all independent companies and teams. So, I mean, on the execution side, there have been a good number of different alternative execution clients over the years. So, I mean, how did you tend to work and interact in that kind of environment where you've got all these different, I guess starting with Parity and then Besu and Nethermind and Aragon, so how did you work with other teams?

**[52:58] SPEAKER_01:** Well, we have all the ACD calls and testing calls. So mostly, we all have working clients all the time, so by default, we don't need to interact a lot. We have to interact when we are testing out new features. There are the prepare forums for that. So, yeah, and some people keep more contacts outside of the Geth team. Some people are more turning inwards and just focusing on Geth issues. But actually, I think in the first years, communication was really not organized as well. We really just tried to figure out things, and some people knew some people from the other teams. But these days, we have much better processes for this. Also, it's a much bigger challenge because there are so many more people. Actually, this is also something I realized during the time we really started working on proof of stake. So, in 2017, it was the first time Ether price went to several thousand dollars, and the foundation had money to hire new teams and found external teams. And I remember until 2017, I mostly met non-Geth people mostly at DevCons. Yeah, and maybe those people who lived in Berlin or one of those cities where there were multiple people, they met more people. But I was always in Hungary and worked remotely. So, I mostly met most of the people at DevCons. But around 2018, when so many researchers and CR teams were hired, I remember DevCon 4 in Prague. Until then, it was maybe 30 to 40 people. After every DevCon, we stood up at the main stage for the group photo. Oh yeah, we are the Ethereum Foundation. It was that many people. And in 2018, I was just shocked. Like, who the hell are all these people? The whole Ethereum Foundation. So, yeah, it became a much bigger challenge, but also now we have all these official forums, and I try to go to more events, not just DevCons, in order to keep all the contacts live.

**[56:00] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, so looking back to when you first started working on Ethereum, did you have any kind of thought or vision of what things might have looked like 10 years later? Has it worked out as you expected or differently? What's your looking back on these 10 years?

**[56:24] SPEAKER_01:** I always had a lot of visions. I maybe was too focused on vision sometimes. But the thing is that we all kind of have to imagine the future at every point, even though we know we can't imagine it as it will turn out. Yes, it never turns out exactly the way we want, but we always have to have some kind of direction, and we have to just have ideas of how things can turn out. So, around 2017, I also realized that scaling will not happen just with L1. So, yeah, we had these ideas about how we could solve problems more efficiently with not even rollups, just application-specific state channels and stuff like that. But there was also this really great project, Raiden. Yeah, thank you. So, they properly implemented the protocol and everything. I think it has always struggled with not many people using it. So, it's a pain that the transactions are expensive, but still, somehow, maybe we just missed some organizing force to really move to some kind of layer two solutions.

**[58:08] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, it was meant to be Lightning for Ethereum, right? That was the thought.

**[58:14] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, pretty much that idea. But then Lightning kind of failed, so maybe not surprising if an Ethereum version of that didn't really get off the ground. You know, you have routing issues. It's really complicated.

**[58:44] SPEAKER_01:** Channels work great for consistent, static topologies. You know, if you want to do merchant to merchant, that's fine.

**[58:50] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah.

**[58:51] SPEAKER_01:** But opening those channels is still costly and non-trivial. And yeah, I also never really used it. I installed it. I tried it. It's interesting, but I never really made a payment through Raiden because there was just no occasion where the other party really wanted a Raiden transfer.

**[59:11] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, no.

**[59:12] SPEAKER_01:** No.

**[59:13] SPEAKER_03:** Thank you very much. I think we can wrap it up there. So, thanks for your time and thanks for all of your work on Geth over these very many years. You know, Geth has always really been the backbone of Ethereum. New clients come and go, but Geth remains.

**[59:41] SPEAKER_01:** Thank you for having me here.

**[59:41] SPEAKER_03:** You're welcome.

**[59:41] SPEAKER_UNKNOWN:** You you you you you