**[00:01] SPEAKER_03:** So hello and welcome to F Denver 2026. So here recording for Early Days of Ethereum with Zolt Felföldi. How do you pronounce your name? Zolt? Zolt. There you go. Anyway, so yeah, I was working out when we were recently reconnected at Devconnect and I was working out that you're the third longest person at the Ethereum Foundation, right? That you've got Vitalik and then and then

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Felix and and then you. Yeah, I haven't really checked this fact yet, but honestly, yeah, it

**[00:44] SPEAKER_03:** sounds sounds great. That's it. So I mean, you're a very long time member of the Geth team, yes, but what were you doing before you started at the Foundation? What was your background? How

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** did you find your way into the blockchain world? Well, before Ethereum, I was working on really different types of projects. So I first started at a Hungarian software company, like really classic software company. We actually sold softwares in boxes, like put on a shelf, discs, like floppy disks put in a box on a shelf and you can buy the software. So like this type of classic software. Five and a quarter inch floppies? Yeah, yeah, actually three and a half was, oh okay, three and a half, we're on to modern floppies. Yeah, but maybe also like in, I said in 97, so maybe I was exaggerating a little. So by that time it was mostly CDs, we still used a lot of floppies anyway. So at that company I did things related to computer graphics. Like I wrote a ray tracing engine for some architectural software and then I also did a lot of work on electronic circuit simulation and circuit design. Right, so yeah, really different things. And it was around 2011 when I first heard about Bitcoin, right, and around 2012 when I started to realize that as weird as it sounds, it really is probably a big thing. And yeah, so actually I first heard about Ethereum early 2014, a few months after the initial paper has been published. Yeah, and started contributing I think around November and officially joined EF

**[03:02] SPEAKER_03:** at in 2015 March. So yeah, and did you hear about it, you think, through like through Danny and

**[03:10] SPEAKER_01:** Viktor or some other way? Well, I did hear about it from like Danny and Viktor's friend circle, so right, yeah, but then Viktor was already, actually I never, I didn't know Viktor before. So I heard about this thing through one of his friends and then then Viktor was also in that wider circle and he came to Hungary and said, oh, I'm already working on this. And then I started with my ideas and started to explain to him why this thing probably will never work. And and he was like, okay, you seem to have a good understanding of this, why don't you come to work

**[03:52] SPEAKER_03:** right right right. So yeah, and was I'm right in thinking that you said it was Swarm that you started

**[03:59] SPEAKER_01:** with? Well, yeah, so Swarm was like part of this initial like the trinity of base technologies of Ethereum. So it was supposed to be the storage layer for dApps. Yeah, I mean, it was kind of a naive way of how people imagine the decentralized applications back then, but honestly it made sense at the time. So I'm I will say that yeah, nothing ever turned out exactly the way that people imagined it, but we are still making a lot of progress. So yeah, Swarm was how we initially imagined like the storage layer for Ethereum and I mean this project still has merits, but yeah, this whole problem space is just a bit more complex. Yeah, yeah. So I started contributing to Swarm first and actually I wrote the first like 500 lines

**[05:02] SPEAKER_03:** of Swarm. There you go. Yeah, I mean, I think if I remember rightly that Viktor mentioned around May 2014 was when he first heard, you know, that the trinity, that this concept that you could have, you know, Ethereum as your sort of your compute and expensive database, Swarm as your decentralized storage, and then Whisper as your messaging. There's that famous diagram, right, with the there's like a circle and the things coming in and Whisper going around the edge and there's another one of those. But yeah, I mean, I guess it was Devcon Zero where Danny really presented a sort of a fleshed out vision of

**[05:51] SPEAKER_01:** of what that decentralized storage. Yes, that's correct. I wasn't there at Devcon Zero yet. So I've heard about this idea even before I heard about Ethereum. So Danny already told me about this idea that he wants to do this kind of hash based chunk storage. Yeah, and yeah, it's so it made total sense that he just pitched that that can fit in. Yeah, yeah, it at the time it was a perfect fit. So he pitched this idea at Devcon Zero and when they accepted it and hired Danny, then Danny called me and said, because he already knew that I know of this project, and yeah, then let's do it together. So there you go. And then so you were hired

**[06:40] SPEAKER_03:** into into EF dev. Yes, I did have a date for that, I've forgotten. I guess it was shortly after, shortly after Devcon Zero, right, that you that you started there? Yes, correct. Did you go to Berlin or Amsterdam? Well, when did you first meet other people? How did it, was Amsterdam in in February 15, right? That's

**[07:07] SPEAKER_01:** where I met Jeffrey Wilcke, the creator of go-ethereum and the the go-ethereum team back then. I don't say Geth because that Geth was was like this abbreviation was invented later. But so yeah, that's where I met the go-ethereum people. Yeah, and I already like had these contributions to Swarm and it was like kind of an implied thing that maybe I might be hired, but but there was really no official hiring process back then, right? So yeah, it was really just Jeff was this really laid back guy and he just he just said okay, okay man, I saw your contributions and let's talk some sometime this week. And yeah, I waited the whole week and waited for some serious interview like it was a dream job for me. Like but by that time I sorry I was really enthusiastic about this whole thing and I felt like even so even though I felt that this whole initial design was yeah I couldn't really couldn't imagine how it would scale and everything and yeah it is a hard problem. So yeah, it was true but it was still worth starting it and and I was really enthusiastic and I really wanted to get hired. And yeah, the whole week I just waited and at the end of the week like the last half an hour before we all left home Jeff just said oh yeah, I wanted to talk to you, you're hired. Okay, that's a good

**[08:47] SPEAKER_03:** talk. So yeah, this is how the hiring process went back then. Excellent, well that's that's easy, we like that. And so you that that was that was before you went to Amsterdam I assume? I assume you went to Amsterdam after you had been hired? No no no, it happened in Amsterdam. Oh you so I see, so you were there

**[09:07] SPEAKER_01:** unhired on site. Yeah, so so so I like Jeff agreed that if I mean I bought my own plane ticket but I could stay at the Airbnb where the whole team stayed and yeah I just worked with them and showed my contributions and yeah so so I went to Amsterdam unhired but yeah I mean right

**[09:29] SPEAKER_03:** right, that plane ticket was a good investment. So yeah. Did they not have office space at that

**[09:35] SPEAKER_01:** point even? Well, they did, they actually back then there was an Amsterdam office, right. It was mostly for Jeff because Jeff lived in Amsterdam. Yeah, but when Jeff left yeah or maybe before that I'm not sure exactly but so the this office was closed and actually it was a really small office, right. Last time I checked now I think it's a dentist like works there. Yeah, yeah, it doesn't exist but it was really just a small small place. But I later I went to Berlin a lot after I was hired and and yeah it was it was for the Geth team it was really really it was centered in somehow in Berlin. So right right because yeah I mean I guess as well as Jeff

**[10:27] SPEAKER_03:** you've got you've got Bas, right? He he was another Amsterdam person, right? Bas Bas van Kunningshoven or? But then maybe most of the other team members weren't in Berlin

**[10:41] SPEAKER_01:** sorry not in Amsterdam I mean yeah yeah no one else was quite distributed. Bas was there for a short time, relatively short time and Jeffrey also left after a while yeah and started his own

**[10:57] SPEAKER_03:** company right, develop games or something. Yeah, so though he he did have oh F Labs was another one. Do you know anything about F Labs? Because when Jeff worked with JP Morgan to do Quorum, that was announced under under the label F Labs. Never heard of that. Yeah, I think I heard the name

**[11:20] SPEAKER_01:** but I didn't really know what it does but yeah I that this is something I knew that Jeff started working with JP Morgan yeah back then and then in that time big banks really really wanted to to talk to us at every Devcon and right we were always invited to fancy dinners by some bank people and yeah so so banks really wanted to learn about the technology. Yeah, yeah, so Jeff Jeff went went for a while to work on Quorum. Yes, true. Yeah, I mean I unless I can

**[11:56] SPEAKER_03:** somehow get in contact with Jeff I guess it's a little bit of a mystery what what exactly F Labs was though I suspect it might be a little bit like Ether Sphere of just sort of being a you know a name a banner for activities rather than a legal entity. And and another thing I don't know there but I suspect is I don't think Jeff told Ming that he was doing that stuff with JPM. I suspect that he completely just did that on his own without any communication with Ming or or with the EF. It's just

**[12:34] SPEAKER_01:** well actually he never really told a lot to us about that so right we knew that yeah he's working with JP Morgan but probably like it's a big bank probably he had to sign an NDA nondisclosure agreement so just he probably couldn't share all the details. No no I mean I remember at some point and

**[12:54] SPEAKER_03:** I can't remember the context him saying he found it interesting because the consensus for that was on chain like this the the consensus for that was happening as smart contracts so it was kind of almost like this pluggable consensus but consensus pulled up you know into the app layer. So he found that quite interesting that the the initial called Quorum consensus, it didn't last long but but I think Gav also was was doing that sort of stuff on the C++ side that he he did some proof of authority stuff before that happened on the Geth side you know before Clique. That the the was this okay well you can he actually made a different C++ client so you've got Eth but he made another one that was called like Fluidity or something which was like pulling all the libraries in the same but it was with a proof of authority consensus but he did that was one of the last things he did before he went out to Parity. So I think both him and Jeff were you know interested at that thought of well how can you formulate these these pieces in in different ways right for those kind of use cases. Interesting but yeah he he he left I think it was I think it was probably very early in 2017 I did I did find a a period but it was certainly ahead of ahead of Devcon three. Let me see if I can find the date. Yeah, I don't remember the exact date

**[14:44] SPEAKER_01:** and actually there was maybe there wasn't even a really exact date when Jeff left no because so so basically a month after I joined Peter Szilágyi joined and and he he was the team lead for a very long time. So Jeff basically yeah kind of handed it on to Peter and for a while he was officially still team lead but not really we haven't seen him on the calls for

**[15:13] SPEAKER_03:** no. So the date I found there was February 2017 but I think I got that from GitHub I think that was like his final commit but he probably tailed off yeah he's a long time. Yeah he already started focusing

**[15:29] SPEAKER_01:** on other stuff like this Quorum stuff and then his own things sometime in 16 so yeah yeah so

**[15:37] SPEAKER_03:** started a company called Grid Games with his brother just building building a particular game but that also seems to have ceased so yeah he's unknown off in the world somewhere. Yeah that's pretty

**[15:52] SPEAKER_01:** much all I know about him. We try to invite him a few times to just come to some event and and meet up and but yeah I think for some reasons he really had enough of maybe not us but but

**[16:09] SPEAKER_03:** things going on in the EF and yeah I mean yeah I think that would be the case that you you know when Ming came in she both did legal tidy up but also cut the spending a lot you know that you'd had the crowd sale in July August September 2014 but coming up to the mainnet release a year later like nearly

**[16:36] SPEAKER_01:** all the money was gone. Yes, they spent it very fast. Yeah, so that Devcon One was a postponed one because of that. Yeah, so and but we didn't really feel a lot of this actually. Jeff just said that that now that Ether price is so low actually I think the lower point was 42 cents yeah and full year it didn't really move and Jeff just said that okay we all have to take a pay cut but the pay cut was really just 10 percent and I think maybe he took a bigger one so yeah yeah for us it was really not that bad and and the the idea was that when Ether price reaches two dollars then yeah we do have some some time to some money to go forward so yeah then then our salaries went back so and that wasn't a lot of time so yeah actually for for I think yeah this is I don't really remember the price history and maybe it's not the most important thing but but I think I think Ether reached something like 10 dollars pretty soon like in 2016 the start of 2016 yeah and and we went even a little bit higher but then we had the DAO fork and the the Shanghai attacks and right and well given how how turbulent those times were the markets held pretty well so so yeah yeah and with 10 Ether we could survive further and yeah

**[18:18] SPEAKER_03:** yeah I mean that was quite a jump up I mean I heard that at the worst point there was only four months of runway left you know that was how close it was to to running out of money. But yeah there were those big cuts which really you know resulted in like Gav Gavin the C++ team were the the main kind of like victims of those cuts. But then yeah just into 2016 pardon me so I was hired in February 2016 same time as Greg Colvin came in and also Pavel was rehired you know he he was working through IMAPP you know working on that JIT but they that contract stopped but then then he came back at that time as well. So it was this this period through late 2015 to early 2016 was like you know the absolute bottom of like are we even going to ship this thing are we going to run out of money before we get to mainnet. But then yeah some of us were really coming in as as backfill for for that for that C++ team yeah so I mean Dev Devcon One was sort of you know you were mentioning in in that in that series that had had got cancelled but then ConsenSys came in and actually like paid for that and said hey we'll we'll like mainly organize it and kind of so that the thing can happen. So that was the big you know the first public event so what what

**[19:55] SPEAKER_01:** what your what your memories of of Devcon One? Well, my my subjective impression was that it's really amazing. Yeah, compared to today's Devcons it was small I think three hundred something people maybe not sure about less than a thousand yeah and and yeah it was it was in a really really prestigious venue some some old bank building or Threadneedle Street yeah it's like City of London and and yeah I really felt like okay so now this is this is really a serious thing and probably that was the reason why ConsenSys stepped in and and funded the event so we really could step up in terms of like public appearance and appear something really serious. And yeah I remember like all the big banks having like the presence like the booth at at Devcon One right yeah so yeah and then Microsoft

**[20:59] SPEAKER_03:** is headline sponsor it's like wow right like recognition right that you you're like wow Microsoft are interested and supportive and yeah I mean I think for a lot of people it was a a real kind of wow like this is for real you know sadly I I could not afford to go I watched the live stream I was not I was not quite in and working yet I was an enthusiastic contributor but yeah so

**[21:34] SPEAKER_01:** actually it was also like the first time for me when I met a larger number of Ethereum people right yeah I I first met the go-ethereum team in in like early 15 and yeah I went to Amsterdam one more time I think in May but but Devcon One was the place where I really like realized that how big this thing is and and and it's really not just about like client developers but also like even even back then people presented about formal verification and all this stuff so yeah I realized that it is this this is really big and probably everyone wants to be a part of it

**[22:20] SPEAKER_03:** at least a little bit. Yeah yeah yeah I mean looking back at Devcon One videos it's like everything like any kind of use case you could think of you know there was somebody presenting about it you know this so so early more than 10 years ago but you know many many concepts which were probably like massively too early to do but maybe you can do them all now seem to be presented. You had Nick Szabo as well Nick Szabo doing a a keynote. Yeah yeah yeah Nick Szabo was also there. So was that maybe the first time that you'd met a number of the people in Berlin like Christoph Jentzsch and Lefteris

**[23:00] SPEAKER_01:** Karapetsas and maybe even Gav? I think I met some of these people already in London and I think first time I went to Berlin office back then it was like the Meade the other like it was like the old office yeah right but so yeah some people I met at Devcon One some people I met in Berlin but yeah yeah so

**[23:24] SPEAKER_03:** no. So was that was Devcon One the first time that you'd been to to do Ethereum things in London or did you did you go to any sort of London meetups or meet any of those comms people earlier

**[23:39] SPEAKER_01:** I didn't go to any meetups to London before but actually I did so Viktor Viktor was was in London at the time and and I was I went to London around the time actually if you're doing some some event with with my old software company the Hungarian software company. Oh right yeah so we we we went to London to to like sell our software and everything so I was still working there right and after that yeah I met up with Viktor and talked about

**[24:23] SPEAKER_03:** things because yeah he from what he was describing and then I was looking at videos and things later he had seen Gav talk in London in very very early February I think it was February the 6th so almost immediately after they'd had the Miami like you know BTC Miami launch you know Vitalik's first public talk and and the you know Anthony Di Iorio's like mansion where they you know a lot of them met for the first time. Gav had been back in London I think it was like a week a week after and did a talk there that Viktor had gone to that was Viktor's first you know in-person meeting with any of these and and then you know Gav had pulled him on board. Yeah so those are like

**[25:22] SPEAKER_01:** the very very early days. I wasn't there so I when I first heard about Ethereum that was I think March or April 14 so I first heard about the pre-sale and yeah like that's yeah that's that's where I first heard about this thing but yeah I know that Gavin was like one of the very early founders of this and and he wrote the the yellow paper yeah full of Greek letters. Yes

**[25:51] SPEAKER_03:** very confusing yeah and and the C++ client of course. So the the first time I think I saw your name or was in contact with you was was about light client because you know I'd I'd been trying to get Ethereum Arm Linux cross builds running on my smartwatch and my thought there was get the thing running and then this light client stuff is just kind of starting and you know like scaling will be solved right we're going to be able to like run these nodes on anything you know you'll have them on your phone smartwatch router they'll be in every operating system you know it's just we'll solve that that that scaling and that lightness so you you were plunged right into that problem right

**[26:38] SPEAKER_01:** yeah so when Jeff hired me actually he he put me on this he has put me on this project so so he just said that okay it's great that I contributed to Swarm but if if I join the Geth team I I will have to start working on that on the light client because it's a very important thing and it hasn't been started yet. Yeah so yeah I I felt really good about it like yeah I I also felt like this is this is a big thing and yeah back then it really felt like we do these few things we have a working light client protocol and and and the whole eternity of of like a base layer and then we're all good. Yeah but it wasn't that easy but still those were the first steps and so so I designed the LES protocol. Yeah in retrospect it didn't make a lot of sense to design to to build it over the devp2p layer right because yeah like it wasn't easy to access from web browsers and stuff but also also it was it was a proof of work based light client and right so yeah that that project ended after a while but I'm still very much into like trustless chain access so that's that has usually been one of my focuses all the time. So right now I'm also working on on something called the trustless execution layer execution layer API right which is similar to the Beacon Chain REST API but works on the execution layer and and provides everything with proofs so yeah I'm still very much into this because I think this is where it really makes sense if even normal users access chain data with proofs

**[28:36] SPEAKER_03:** right right and there was a project called Portal as well were you involved with Portal that was a later

**[28:42] SPEAKER_01:** kind of light client no I wasn't so Portal was a Piper Merriam's brainchild and yeah so by the time we kind of realized that LES was a nice first experiment but maybe not the best approach he he started like something different that was a UDP based and and and also like use different topologies so it it was kind of a DHT approach to storing the chain and the state and yeah actually I'm kind of like I I think it's it's a bad thing that it's been completely canceled because well actually to be honest I never really believed that that it will be a easily solvable problem to store the Merkle Patricia trie of the state right on the DHT but for the chain data yeah it made perfect sense so yeah maybe maybe the state would have been possible with a lot of work but yeah I mean Piper told me a few times about how he imagines the order to solve all the unsolvable problems and I felt like yeah it sounds good but he just made a lot of really hard assumptions about DHTs that I by the time I I already worked on Discovery v5 so there was also this discovery protocol that basically we designed it in 2016 in Berlin with Felix and I released the original version and yeah so so I already knew that yeah it's it's never so easy to imagine like a DHT that's that's efficiently formed that all the nodes are working and yeah like this so but but for the for the chain data right especially with EIP-4444 so like like that lets the main protocol the nodes processing main protocol forget the old chain history right so it it made perfect sense to at least put the chain history on a DHT yeah but yeah so it was an EF decision that it was discontinued at points. Well I mean I guess the thing is

**[31:06] SPEAKER_03:** you know Patricia Merkle trees are not great for you know the number of accesses and things anyway let alone if you're making each of those steps over a networked you know DHT kind of setup that's yeah there's a lot of it's so much transactional change yeah complexity state tree suffers from a

**[31:32] SPEAKER_01:** lot of issues especially the Merkle Patricia state tree yeah and yeah it's it's it's a huge data set that keeps changing all the time and keeps changing in completely random places yeah and it's it's not an easy task to distribute it right so actually it's it's getting harder to even synchronize it between the full nodes or in the entire state yeah yeah so yeah yeah

**[31:59] SPEAKER_03:** so do you do you think that proofs are going to be a magic you know magic silver bullet here where by by by having you know local proofs versus you know massive really redundant state machines do you think do you think there's a path here where oh oh yeah no it's not a silver bullet so

**[32:24] SPEAKER_01:** so I assume you mean what people call statelessness so it's it's a good thing it it allows definitely allows a higher degree of scaling but the state tree still has to be processed and maintained by someone and especially if most of the most of the nodes have no incentive to to process it yeah and and it and yeah now we are talking about a hundred x and thousand x scaling then then then even even if we also do state expiry which is currently imagined in a way that we basically reset the state tree every year or something and yeah and have multiple state trees so yeah that helps somewhat but if we scale a thousand x then it will be a huge infrastructural centralization issue right and yeah by the way I I this this thing is is not an unsolvable problem I mean I mean the the state as it works today yeah unfortunately somehow makes it really hard to do any fundamental improvements over these properties but people are considering like different storage architectures yeah of course we have to keep the existing contracts workable because that was our like main promise from the beginning right but we will not just shut down anything yeah everything has 100% uptime but it is so it is it is it is a viable way to come up with more efficient storage methods and use it as an opt-in alternative that will over time be available for much less and new contracts can be designed using those more efficient storage

**[34:26] SPEAKER_03:** architectures yeah because Verkle trees seem to be the first sort of thought on that but then those yeah that's kind of come and gone and maybe it's a binary tree or actually it does either

**[34:40] SPEAKER_01:** so important either I mean I mean both are better than the Merkle Patricia tree yeah but in some ways but they don't solve this fundamental issue by themselves so still the thing is that the state is a permanent key value store and in order to avoid it growing forever yeah there's all these these ideas about state expiry but still it's it's it's going to be a huge data set and and the method of hashing or or like consensus representation protocol representation doesn't fundamentally change this so Verkle was supposed to provide more efficient Merkle proofs but also I guess somewhat more expensive state processing because it's like more expensive cryptography right also if I'm correct it's not quantum secure so right right and that was also a thing that where I I always felt like yeah I'm not sure if it's a good idea to start working from now and I just saw it in front of my eyes how it's going to be cancelled and yeah so yeah I mean

**[36:04] SPEAKER_03:** for running nodes in general you know there's not a lot of incentive for people to run any kind of like node software themselves unless they are you know a validator or you know you're running an exchange or a business and you you need your you know back end to that you know I guess the the vision of that there was at the start of like well yeah everyone will be running their own node and you you so you've got Mist on top of it and you know it's it's local apps you know and then that that can have Swarm for the smart contracts and you know you it's almost like you won't have server architecture because everyone's running a server stack and then yeah that that did not happen

**[36:47] SPEAKER_01:** actually actually that's so that's why we are also stuck with the with the JSON-RPC API which doesn't provide proofs except for eth_getProof but doesn't provide proofs for a lot of things because because it was never meant to be used remotely it was always imagined that yeah it's used locally in a trusted setup on your own machine and yeah and yeah I remember all those good old days when I just synced up a full node it was a few gigabytes of disk space and ran Mist on top of it and yeah all the it's magic but yeah unfortunately it didn't scale so no no at the museum of

**[37:29] SPEAKER_03:** Ethereum here I've got laptops running Geth 1.3.6 so Homestead Geth and I I mined Homestead back to life so you know any any hard fork that happens the other the old one doesn't go away right it doesn't disappear it's just people don't associate any economic value with it and it kind of gets abandoned but yeah what I've done is is first GPU and then down to CPU mined that Homestead difficulty down to the level that you can CPU mine it again so I do I have I have got Mist running on those so we can go we can go and transact we can send a transaction between those and and it should be possible to run Aleth-Zero and Aleth-One and Mix on that as well I haven't had time to do that but and and you know ERC-20 tokens existed you know you could have have DAO tokens or Mist coin yeah at that time but yeah the the the assumption that people would run their own node and it would all be you know self-sovereign local apps certainly did not come to fruition well yeah that's when the

**[38:56] SPEAKER_01:** light client came in and then we assumed that okay then we do the light client and yeah it will be all

**[39:00] SPEAKER_03:** solved that's it yeah that's what I was thinking is like right I've got I've got a full node running on my smartwatch that works and I'll just wait for for you and the other guys to you know sort out

**[39:11] SPEAKER_01:** light client and just turn that on and there we go. Well actually the light client protocol worked fine it's just yeah I I spent like a really crazy amount of time figuring out how it could be decent like incentivized in a truly decentralized way because yeah I I remember this there was this idealism that that yeah now now we are almost done with everything so we just have to find a real proper way for incentivizing things but not in a way that there's a few companies where you can buy like tokens but truly in a decentralized way which is much harder because yeah then we have to somehow build decentralized trust and and figure out market mechanisms that work without initial trust so yeah this is something I spent years with and honestly I think I came up with some nice theoretical models and a lot of really complex code but yeah it's just again was like the wrong approach maybe also at the wrong time so we were just not there really yeah because I mean

**[40:29] SPEAKER_03:** BitTorrent has obviously worked for distributing content for many many years but then you you do have this tragedy of the commons right is the latest Hollywood movie someone has ripped it off and people want that so that's going to get shared around no problem but things which are only of interest to a smaller number of people without incentives it's just a a leeching problem right you kind of good good full node runners would would contribute you know they'll turn on the LES as well right they would help supply that but the incentives and economics are that not easy yeah actually with BitTorrent it

**[41:16] SPEAKER_01:** also usually if you really want to use it it requires trackers that where you buy some some priority access so right there are these these private trackers and everything yeah so yeah and and those are this is also like not completely decentralized but actually it does work so it's it's definitely better than nothing but for LES it wasn't really this easy because this whole service was like downloading movies was was an application that everyone understood that everybody used and somehow with Ethereum it was always this yeah everyone felt the importance but if you're nowhere near close to like like a really mature ecosystem and and so so it was just I don't think there would have been a big enough market really for these services to to really work out in a market-based way yeah but as we as we scale and accessing the whole dataset is becomes more and more difficult at a certain point I think we are going to have something like reimagined several years ago so yeah it's it's just both like timing and specifics yeah I was I was right about everything except timing and specifics yeah yes yes yeah I mean there's a number of

**[42:51] SPEAKER_03:** things that that seemed like they would be easy and quick and obvious and have taken so many years I mean like like proof of stake you know the it was in the white paper there was an assumption you know later in 2015 that'll happen you know within six months maybe three six months and then it's it's eight years before you know it actually went live and and yeah I mean on storage so Filecoin their first white paper was in 2014 as well you know Filecoin was not a a new thing and IPFS was around before Ethereum as well but and then yeah Whisper kind of went for a while and then now there's there's Waku and and you'd have you've had Status driving a lot of those texts for a lot of those years as well you know Jarrad Hope and team who were also doing Android version of the the Java client you know the same kind of time as I was looking at smart watches you yeah Jarrad Hope was also very

**[44:06] SPEAKER_01:** eagerly waiting for for for like the fully functional light client yeah yeah yeah well

**[44:12] SPEAKER_03:** yeah because you know they were building kind of decentralized WeChat you know super app but I guess you know kind of a competitor to to Mist really similar kind of thing you know wanting to have a you know a container for running dApps in sitting on top of a local client again you know having this completely self-sovereign kind of server app stack but not not easy and I can't remember who it was that was telling me that so when they first saw MetaMask which was at Devcon One that was one of the grantee winners was was MetaMask them thinking no we that's not what we want we we don't want like you know some browser extension thing talking to a trusted endpoint like that's absolutely the opposite like what what are these guys doing and then that's you know that's become the standard flow right well yeah so

**[45:18] SPEAKER_01:** this is this is still kind of an unsolved problem to to access everything in a truly decentralized way but I think we are getting there over time it's just yeah nothing nothing is as simple as we initially imagined and also there's a time for everything and I think through decentralized infrastructure will be forced by scaling and things sometimes just doesn't happen if they are not forced by some some circumstance some fact some external factor so yeah as long as it's lazy it works in a lazy way to just connect MetaMask to Infura yeah until then it's it's the standard way yeah yeah so I I think

**[46:15] SPEAKER_03:** I found two different talks of yours at Devcons talking really about light client do you remember did you

**[46:22] SPEAKER_01:** talk in London or was Shanghai your first? No I talked at London also Shanghai and also also in in Cancun yeah so those were the first two Devcons that were mostly about the light client so they actually the first release of the light client protocol was in 16 so so it was around that time and later I I already started to like invent all like all the next chapters of of decentralized technology and yeah it was really naive of me but but I I also had this this project back then where I where I started to try to make logs provable efficiently and yeah that was so so so the initial attempt for that was in 2017 and now I'm back at it now I'm also like have I also have this trustless log index project yeah and yeah so so this this this all the approaches 2017 that was just a more efficient way to organize the Bloom filters but it didn't really solve the problem of of the Bloom filters not adapting to yeah to the number of events and also it never I never even proposed it putting it into consensus which would have allowed the actual trustless proofs through the chain right so yeah that that also proved to be a a hard problem but yeah this is one of the things what I presented in Cancun right right oh yeah and also some kind of my my ideas of of of of state channels so back then we didn't have like L2s in a way so actually back then layer two just meant something that happens off chain not necessarily another blockchain yeah and yeah so yeah I I had these ideas about individual nodes running all running their own blockchains and somehow organizing some off chain calculations through that but yeah it's also like assumed a lot about how how those would operate and probably would

**[48:50] SPEAKER_03:** have never worked yeah it's a suspect right yeah so yeah I mean we had state channels and then we had Plasma and then eventually coming into optimistic rollups and then ZK later just many many different attempts hello see you sir great to see you okay so so yeah I mean I guess there's an awful lot of learning right 10 years worth of lots of people trying lots of different things so I mean in terms of the Geth team has that been similar over the years or have you had you know larger and smaller amounts of people has it been a similar kind of flow through that time

**[49:36] SPEAKER_01:** I would say it was pretty consistently around 10 people throughout all these years sometimes eight nine sometimes 11 12 but really like in this this range we did improve our internal processes during the years so yeah now now we we do have like all this this issue and pull request triages and and yeah but but really it's it's it's been mostly mostly mostly that team was also always small enough so that we didn't need a lot of processes right right honestly the team culture yeah it did obviously change especially with with certain people coming and going but it also also I would say it was always always a good team culture I I I always liked the Geth team that's also why I never really looked into moving to other teams or other projects because I felt that that team is the best place to do do meaningful

**[50:54] SPEAKER_03:** things. Yeah I mean it's it it's funny because from the very start of Ethereum the intention was to have multiple clients right that was a very basic decision of saying we want a separation between the specification and the implementation right because we don't want it to be like Bitcoin where you've got one code base and then like there's no like competition there's no

**[51:21] SPEAKER_01:** for Bitcoin's complexity that approach worked but for Ethereum's complexity I would say this was one of the the best decisions yeah it also contributed to almost running out of money by the time we launched mainnet but I would say it was money well wasted so yes no I I would agree it was not

**[51:43] SPEAKER_03:** efficient but the outcome was very much worthwhile yeah and when we switched to proof of stake

**[51:52] SPEAKER_01:** we we we again successfully applied this pattern by running by by funding multiple CL implementations and then testing every EL against every CL yeah and then yes that's that's with all the combinations

**[52:08] SPEAKER_03:** five is it five different primary consensus clients there are I think it's five yeah and and yeah notably none of those were within the Foundation either they were all independent companies and teams so I mean on the execution side there have been you know a good number of different alternative execution clients over the years so I mean how how do you tended to like work and interact in that kind of environment where you've got all these different you know I guess starting with Parity and then Besu and Nethermind Erigon so how how how do you work with other teams well we we have now

**[52:58] SPEAKER_01:** we we have all the ACD calls and testing calls so so mostly I mean I mean we all do have working clients all the time so by default we don't need to interact a lot we have to interact when we are testing out new features yeah there are there are the prep forums for that so yeah and oh it's it's also some people keep more contacts outside of the Geth team some people are more turning inwards and then just focusing on on Geth issues yeah but but actually I think in the first years communication was really not organized as well so we really just try to figure out things and and some people knew some people from the other teams and yeah but actually these days we have much better processes for this also it's a much much bigger challenge because there's so many more people actually this this is also something I realized during the time we really started working on proof of stake so in 2017 it was the first time Ether price went to more several thousand dollars and yeah the Foundation had had money to hire right new teams and fund external teams and I remember that until 2017 I mostly met non-go-ethereum people mostly at Devcons right yeah yeah and maybe those people who lived in Berlin or one of those cities where there were multiple people they they met more people but I I I was always in Hungary and worked remotely and yeah I I mostly met most of the people at Devcons yeah but around I think I think it was a 2018 when right so many like researchers and and have been hired and and there were also the CL teams and I remember Devcon 4 at Prague yeah it was so until then it was mostly I don't know how many people exactly but I do remember it's maybe 30 40 people I don't know after every Devcon yeah we stood up at the main stage and the group photo oh yeah we are the Ethereum Foundation yes like it was that many people yeah and and and in in 18 I I just I was just shocked like who the hell are all these people the whole Ethereum Foundation yeah so yeah it was it became a much bigger challenge but also now we we do have all these official forums and also I try to go to more events not just Devcons so yeah in order to keep all the contacts live yeah

**[56:00] SPEAKER_03:** yeah so I mean looking back to when you first started working on Ethereum did you have any kind of thought or vision of what things might have looked like 10 years later like it has it worked out as you expected or differently or what what's what's your looking back on these 10 years what's

**[56:24] SPEAKER_01:** your your thought? I always had a lot of visions yeah I maybe maybe I was too focused on vision sometimes. So the thing is that we all kind of have to imagine the future at every point even though we know we can't imagine it as it will turn out yes it never turns out exactly the way we want but we always have to have some kind of direction and we have to just have ideas of how things can turn out so yeah around like 2017 I also realized that scaling will not not happen just with L1 so yeah we I also had this this as I mentioned had these ideas about how how we could solve problems more efficiently with with not even rollups just like application specific state channels and stuff like that yeah but but it also also also like there was this really great project Raiden yeah thank you thank you so so yeah they properly implemented the protocol and everything yeah I think it has always struggled with like not many people using it so it's it's it's a pain it's a pain that the transactions are expensive but still somehow maybe we just missed some organizing force to to to really move to to some kind of layer two solutions yeah and

**[58:08] SPEAKER_03:** and it was just yeah yeah well it was meant to be Lightning for Ethereum right that was the thought well yeah it was pretty much that idea but then Lightning's kind of failed so maybe not surprising if if an Ethereum version of that's not really got because you know you have you've got routing issues right it's really complicated yes the channels seem to work great for consistent static topographies you know if you want to do merchant to merchant that like

**[58:44] SPEAKER_01:** channels work great yeah but opening those channels is still costly and non-trivial and yeah it's just I also never really I I installed it I tried it I okay this is interesting but yeah I never really made a payment through Raiden because there was just no occasion where the other party

**[59:11] SPEAKER_03:** really wanted Raiden transfer no no well thank you very much I think we we can wrap it up there okay so so thanks for your time and thanks for all of your work on Geth over these very many years you know Geth has always really been the backbone of Ethereum you know new clients you know come and go but Geth Geth remains yeah so thank you thank you for having me here okay

**[59:41] SPEAKER_00:** thank you you

**[59:41] SPEAKER_03:** you you

**[59:41] SPEAKER_UNKNOWN:** you you you you you