**[00:01] SPEAKER_03:** So hello and welcome to ETHDenver 2026. So here recording for Early Days of Ethereum with Zoltán Felföldi. How do you pronounce your name? Zoltán?

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Zoltán, yeah.

**[00:44] SPEAKER_03:** There you go. Anyway, so yeah, I was working out—we recently reconnected at DevConnect and I was working out that you're the third longest person at the Ethereum Foundation. That you've got Vitalik and then...

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** Felix and then you, yeah. I haven't really checked this fact yet, but honestly...

**[00:44] SPEAKER_03:** Sounds great, that's it. So I mean, you're a very long time member of the Geth team, yes. But what were you doing before you started at the Foundation? What was your background? How did you find your way into the blockchain world?

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** Well, before Ethereum I was working on really different types of projects. I first started at a Hungarian software company, like a really classic software company. We actually sold software in boxes, like put on a shelf with discs, like floppy disks, put in a box on a shelf and you can buy the software. This type of classic software. Five and a quarter inch floppies? Yeah, actually three and a half. Oh, okay, three and a half. We're on to modern floppies. But maybe like in '97, so maybe I was exaggerating a little. By that time it was mostly CDs. We still used a lot of floppies anyway. At that company I did things related to computer graphics. I brought a ray tracing engine for some architectural software and then I also did a lot of work on electronic circuit simulation and circuit design. Really different things. It was around 2011 when I first heard about Bitcoin, and around 2012 when I started to realize that, as weird as it sounds, it really is probably a big thing. I first heard about Ethereum early 2014, a few months after the initial paper was published. I started contributing I think around November and officially joined EF in March 2015.

**[03:02] SPEAKER_03:** And did you hear about it through Danny and Viktor or some other way?

**[03:10] SPEAKER_01:** I did hear about it from Danny and Viktor's friend circle. Viktor was already—actually I never, I didn't know Viktor before. I heard about this thing through one of his friends and then Viktor was also in that wider circle and he came to Hungary and said, "Oh, I'm already working on this." Then I started with my ideas and started to explain to him why this thing probably will never work, and he was like, "Okay, you seem to have a good understanding of this, why don't you come to work..."

**[03:52] SPEAKER_03:** Right. And was I right in thinking that you said it was Swarm that you started with?

**[03:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so Swarm was part of this initial trinity of base technologies of Ethereum. It was supposed to be the storage layer for dApps. I mean it was kind of a naive way of how people imagined decentralized applications back then, but honestly it made sense at the time. I will say that nothing ever turned out exactly the way that people imagined it, but we are still making a lot of progress. Swarm was how we initially imagined the storage layer for Ethereum. I mean this project still has merits, but this whole problem space is just a bit more complex. I started contributing to Swarm first and actually I wrote the first like 500 lines of Swarm.

**[05:02] SPEAKER_03:** There you go. I think if I remember rightly, Viktor mentioned around May 2014 was when he first heard—the trinity, this concept that you could have Ethereum as your compute, an expensive database, Swarm as your decentralized storage, and then Whisper as your messaging. There's that famous diagram with the circle and the things coming in and Whisper going around the edge. But I guess it was DevCon Zero where Danny really presented a fleshed out vision of decentralized storage?

**[05:51] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, that's correct. I wasn't there at DevCon Zero yet, so I heard about this idea even before I heard about Ethereum. Danny already told me about this idea that he wants to do this kind of hash-based chunk storage. It made total sense that he just pitched that it can fit in. At the time it was a perfect fit. He pitched this idea at DevCon Zero and when they accepted it and hired Danny, then Danny called me and said—because he already knew that I knew of this project—let's do it together.

**[06:40] SPEAKER_03:** And then so you were hired into EF Dev. Yes, I did have a date for that, I've forgotten. I guess it was shortly after DevCon Zero that you started there?

**[07:07] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, correct.

**[06:40] SPEAKER_03:** Did you go to Berlin or Amsterdam? When did you first meet other people?

**[07:07] SPEAKER_01:** Amsterdam in February 2015. That's where I met Jeffrey Wilcke, the creator of go-ethereum, and the go-ethereum team back then. I don't say Geth because that abbreviation was invented later. That's where I met the go-ethereum people. I already had these contributions to Swarm and it was kind of an implied thing that maybe I might be hired, but there was really no official hiring process back then. Jeff was this really laid-back guy and he just said, "Okay man, I saw your contributions, let's talk sometime this week." I waited the whole week and waited for some serious interview. It was a dream job for me. I was really enthusiastic about this whole thing. Even though I felt that this whole initial design—I couldn't really imagine how it would scale and everything, and yeah it is a hard problem, it was true, but it was still worth starting it. I was really enthusiastic and I really wanted to get hired. The whole week I just waited and at the end of the week, like the last half an hour before we all left home, Jeff just said, "Oh yeah, when I wanted to talk to you—you're hired."

**[08:47] SPEAKER_03:** That's a good talk. So this is how the hiring process went back then. Excellent. That was before you went to Amsterdam, I assume? You went to Amsterdam after you had been hired?

**[09:07] SPEAKER_01:** No, no, it happened in Amsterdam.

**[09:07] SPEAKER_03:** So you were there unhired on site?

**[09:07] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Jeff agreed that if—I bought my own plane ticket but I could stay at the Airbnb where the whole team stayed. I just worked with them and showed my contributions. I went to Amsterdam unhired.

**[09:29] SPEAKER_03:** That plane ticket was a good investment. Did they have office space at that point?

**[09:35] SPEAKER_01:** They did, actually. Back then there was an Amsterdam office. It was mostly for Jeff because Jeff lived in Amsterdam. When Jeff left—or maybe before that, I'm not sure exactly—the office was closed. Actually it was a really small office. Last time I checked I think it's a dentist there now. It doesn't exist. It was really just a small place. Later I went to Berlin a lot after I was hired. For the Geth team it was really centered in Berlin somehow.

**[10:27] SPEAKER_03:** Because as well as Jeff, you've got Bas, right? Bas van den Berg?

**[10:41] SPEAKER_01:** Bas was there for a relatively short time and Jeffrey also left after a while and started his own company.

**[10:57] SPEAKER_03:** Right, to develop games or something. Though he did have—oh, F Labs was another one. Do you know anything about F Labs? Because when Jeff worked with JPMorgan to do Quorum, that was announced under the label F Labs.

**[11:20] SPEAKER_01:** Never heard of that. Yeah, I think I heard the name but I didn't really know what it does. This is something I knew, that Jeff started working with JPMorgan back then. In that time big banks really wanted to talk to us at every DevCon. We were always invited to fancy dinners by some main people. Banks really wanted to learn about the technology. Jeff went for a while to work on Quorum.

**[11:56] SPEAKER_03:** True. I mean, unless I can somehow get in contact with Jeff, I guess it's a little bit of a mystery what exactly F Labs was, though I suspect it might be a little bit like Ethosphere, just being a name, a banner for activities rather than a legal entity. Another thing I don't know but I suspect—I don't think Jeff told Ming that he was doing that stuff with JPM. I suspect that he completely just did that on his own without any communication with Ming or with the EF.

**[12:34] SPEAKER_01:** Actually he never really told a lot to us about that. We knew that he's working with JPMorgan, but probably like it's a big bank, probably he had to sign a contract with a non-disclosure agreement, so he probably couldn't share all the details.

**[12:54] SPEAKER_03:** I remember at some point him saying he found it interesting because the consensus for Quorum was on-chain. The consensus was happening as smart contracts, so it was kind of almost like pluggable consensus, but consensus pulled up into the app layer. He found that quite interesting. The initial so-called Quorum consensus didn't last long, but I think Gav also was doing that sort of stuff on the C++ side. He did some proof of authority stuff before that happened on the Geth side, before Clique. There was this—okay, you can actually—he made a different C++ client. You've got cpp-ethereum, but he made another one that was called like Fluidity or something, which was like pulling all the libraries in the same but it was with a proof of authority consensus. That was one of the last things he did before he went out to Parity. I think both him and Jeff were interested at that thought of how can you formulate these pieces in different ways for those kind of use cases. But he left—I think it was probably very early in 2017. I did find a date but it was certainly ahead of DevCon Three.

**[14:44] SPEAKER_01:** Actually there was maybe not even a really exact date when Jeff left. Basically a month after I joined, Peter Szilágyi joined and he was the team lead for a very long time. Jeff basically kind of handed it on to Peter and for a while he was officially still team lead but not really. We haven't seen him on the calls.

**[15:13] SPEAKER_03:** The date I found was February 2017 but I think I got that from GitHub. I think that was like his final commit but he probably tailed off.

**[15:29] SPEAKER_01:** He already started focusing on other stuff like this Quorum stuff and then his own things sometime in '16.

**[15:37] SPEAKER_03:** Started a company called Grid Games with his brother just building a particular game, but that also seems to have ceased. So he's unknown off in the world somewhere.

**[15:52] SPEAKER_01:** That's pretty much all I know about him. We try to invite him a few times to just come to some event and meet up, but I think for some reasons he really had enough of maybe not us, but things going on in the EF.

**[16:09] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I mean I think that would be the case. When Ming came in she both did legal tidy up but also cut the spending a lot. You'd had the crowdsale in July, August, September 2014, but coming up to the mainnet release a year later, nearly all the money was gone.

**[16:36] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, they spent it very fast. DevCon One was a postponed one because of that. We didn't really feel a lot of this actually. Jeff just said that now that ether price is so low—actually I think the lowest point was 42 cents—and for a full year it didn't really move. Jeff just said, "Okay, we all have to take a payment cut." The payment cut was really just 10 percent. I think maybe he took a bigger one. For us it was really not that bad. The idea was that when ether price reaches two dollars then we go back to some money to go forward. Then our salaries went back. And that wasn't a lot of time. Actually for—I don't really remember the price history and maybe it's not the most important thing, but I think ether reached something like 10 dollars pretty soon, like at the start of 2016. We went even a little bit higher but then we had the DAO fork and the Shanghai attacks. Given how turbulent those times were, the markets helped pretty well. With 10 dollar ether we could survive further.

**[18:18] SPEAKER_03:** That was quite a jump up. I heard that at the worst point there was only four months of runway left. That was how close it was to running out of money. There were those big cuts which really resulted in like Gav, Gavin, the C++ team were the main victims of those cuts. Then just into 2016—pardon me—so I was hired in February 2016, same time as Greg Colvin came in and also Pavel was rehired. He was working through cpp-ethereum, working on that JIT, but that contract stopped and then he came back at that time as well. This period through late 2015 to early 2016 was the absolute bottom of "Are we even going to ship this thing? Are we going to run out of money before we get to mainnet?" Then some of us were really coming in as backfill for that C++ team. DevCon One was—you were mentioning that it had got cancelled but then ConsenSys came in and actually paid for that and said, "We'll mainly organize it so that the thing can happen." That was the first public event. What are your memories of DevCon One?

**[19:55] SPEAKER_01:** My subjective impression was that it's really amazing. Compared to today's DevCons it was small, I think 300-something people, maybe less than a thousand. It was in a really prestigious venue, some old bank building on Threadneedle Street in the City of London. I really felt like, okay, now this is really a serious thing. Probably that was the reason why ConsenSys stepped in and funded the event, so we really could step up in terms of public appearance and appear as something really serious. I remember all the big banks having a presence, like a booth at DevCon One. And then Microsoft was headline sponsor. It's like wow, recognition, like you're like "Wow, Microsoft are interested and supportive." For a lot of people it was a real wow, like this is for real.

**[21:34] SPEAKER_01:** Actually it was also the first time for me when I met a larger number of Ethereum people. I first met the go-ethereum team in early '15 and I went to Amsterdam one more time I think in May, but DevCon One was the place where I really realized how big this thing is and it's really not just about client developers but also like even back then people presented about formal verification and all this stuff. I realized that this is really big and probably everyone wants to be a part of it at least a little bit.

**[22:20] SPEAKER_03:** Looking back at DevCon One videos, it's like everything, any kind of use case you could think of, there was somebody presenting about it. So early, more than 10 years ago, but many concepts which were probably massively too early to do but maybe you can do them all now. You had Nick Szabo as well, Nick Szabo doing a keynote. Was that maybe the first time that you'd met a number of the people in Berlin like Christoph Jentsch and Lefteris Karin and maybe even Gav?

**[23:00] SPEAKER_01:** I think I met some of these people already in London and I think the first time I went to Berlin office—back then it was the old office—but some people I met at DevCon One, some people I met in Berlin.

**[23:24] SPEAKER_03:** Was DevCon One the first time that you'd been to do Ethereum things in London or did you go to any sort of London meetups or meet any of those comms people earlier?

**[23:39] SPEAKER_01:** I didn't go to any meetups in London before, but actually Viktor was in London at the time and I went to London around that time, actually doing some event with my old software company, the Hungarian software company. We went to London to sell our software and everything. I was still working there and after that I met up with Viktor and talked about things.

**[24:23] SPEAKER_03:** From what he was describing and then I was looking at videos later, he had seen Gav talk in London in very very early February, I think it was February 6th, so almost immediately after they'd had the Miami B2C Miami launch—Vitalik's first public talk—at Anthony Di Iorio's mansion where a lot of them met for the first time. Gav had been back in London, I think it was like a week after, and did a talk there that Viktor had gone to. That was Viktor's first in-person meeting with any of these and then Gav had pulled him on board. Those are the very very early days.

**[25:22] SPEAKER_01:** I wasn't there. When I first heard about Ethereum, that was March or April '14. I first heard about the pre-sale. Gavin was one of the very early founders of this and he wrote the Yellow Paper full of Greek letters.

**[25:51] SPEAKER_03:** Very confusing. And the C++ client of course. The first time I think I saw your name or was in contact with you was about light client, because I'd been trying to get Ethereum ARM Linux cross builds running on my smartwatch. My thought there was get the thing running and then this light client stuff is just starting and scaling will be solved, right? We're going to be able to run these nodes on anything—you'll have them on your phone, smartwatch, router, they'll be in every operating system. We'll solve that scaling and that lightness. You were plunged right into that problem.

**[26:38] SPEAKER_01:** When Jeff hired me, actually he put me on this project. He just said, "Okay, it's great that you contributed to Swarm, but if you join the Geth team you will have to start working on the light client because it's a very important thing and it hasn't been started yet." I felt really good about it. I also felt like this is a big thing. Back then it really felt like we do these few things, we have a working light client protocol, and the whole eternity of base layer and then we're all good. But it wasn't that easy. Those were the first steps. I designed the LES protocol. In retrospect it didn't make a lot of sense to build it over the devp2p layer because it wasn't easy to access from web browsers and stuff. It was a proof of work based light client. That project ended after a while, but I'm still very much into trustless chain access. That has usually been one of my focuses all the time. Right now I'm working on something called the trustless execution layer API, which is similar to the beacon REST API but works on the execution layer and provides everything with proofs. I'm still very much into this because I think this is where it really makes sense if even normal users access chain data with proofs.

**[28:36] SPEAKER_03:** And there was a project called Portal as well. Were you involved with Portal? That was a later kind of light client.

**[28:42] SPEAKER_01:** No, I wasn't. Portal was Piper Merriam's brainchild. By the time we kind of realized that LES was a nice first experiment but maybe not the best approach, he started something different that was UDP-based and also used different topologies. It was kind of a DHT approach to storing the chain and the state. Actually I think it's a bad thing that it's been completely canceled because—well, actually to be honest I never really believed that it will be an easily solvable problem to store the Merkle Patricia trie of the state on the DHT, but for the chain data it made perfect sense. Maybe the state would have been possible with a lot of work, but Piper told me a few times about how he imagines to solve all the unsolvable problems and I felt like yeah it sounds good, but he just made a lot of really hard assumptions about DHTs that—by the time I already worked on Discovery v5, so there was also this discovery protocol that we designed in 2016 in Berlin with Felix and I released the original version. I already knew that it's never so easy to imagine a DHT that's efficiently formed, that all the nodes are working. For the chain data, especially with EIP-4444, which lets the main protocol nodes processing main protocol forget all chain history, it made perfect sense to at least put the chain history on a DHT. It was an EF decision that it was discontinued at some point.

**[31:06] SPEAKER_03:** Patricia Merkle trees are not great for the number of accesses anyway, let alone if you're making each of those steps over a networked DHT setup. There's a lot of complexity. State trie suffers from a lot of issues, especially in Merkle Patricia state trie.

**[31:32] SPEAKER_01:** It's a huge data set that keeps changing all the time and keeps changing at completely random places. It's not an easy task to distribute it. Actually it's getting harder to even synchronize it between full nodes with the entire state.

**[31:59] SPEAKER_03:** Do you think that proofs are going to be a magic silver bullet here where by having local proofs versus massive really redundant state machines, do you think there's a path here?

**[32:24] SPEAKER_01:** Oh yeah, no, it's not a silver bullet. I assume you mean what people call statelessness. It's a good thing, it definitely allows a higher degree of scaling, but the state tree still has to be processed and maintained by someone. Especially if most of the nodes have no incentive to process it. Now we are talking about a hundred x and thousand x scaling, then even if we also do state expiry, which is currently imagined in a way that we basically reset the state tree every year or something and have multiple state trees—that has somewhat—but if we scale a thousand x then it will be a huge infrastructural centralization issue. This thing is not an unsolvable problem. The state as it works today unfortunately somehow makes it really hard to do any fundamental improvements over these properties, but people are considering different storage architectures. Of course we have to keep the existing contracts workable because that was our main promise from the beginning—we will not just shut down anything. Everything has 100 percent uptime. But it is a viable way to come up with more efficient storage methods and use it as an opt-in alternative that will over time be available for much less, and new contracts can be designed using those more efficient storage architectures.

**[34:26] SPEAKER_03:** Because Verkle trees seem to be the first sort of thought on that, but then those kind of came and went, and maybe it's a binary tree?

**[34:40] SPEAKER_01:** Both are better than the Merkle Patricia tree in some ways, but they don't solve this fundamental issue by themselves. The state is a permanent key-value store. In order to avoid it growing forever, there's all these ideas about state expiry, but still it's going to be a huge data set. The method of hashing or consensus protocol representation doesn't fundamentally change this. Verkle was supposed to provide more efficient Merkle proofs but also somewhat more expensive state processing because it's more expensive cryptography. Also if I'm correct it's not quantum secure. That was also a thing where I always felt like yeah, I'm not sure if it's a good idea to start working from now and I just saw it in front of my eyes how it's going to be cancelled.

**[36:04] SPEAKER_03:** For running nodes in general, there's not a lot of incentive for people to run any kind of node software themselves unless they are a validator or running an exchange or a business and you need your backend to that. The vision at the start was everyone will be running their own node and you've got Mist on top of it and it's local apps, and then that can have Swarm for the smart contracts, and it's almost like you won't have server architecture because everyone's running a server stack. That did not happen.

**[36:47] SPEAKER_01:** That's why we are also stuck with the JSON-RPC API which doesn't provide proofs except for eth_getProofs but doesn't provide proofs for a lot of things, because it was never meant to be used remotely. It was always imagined that it's used locally in a trusted setup on your own machine. I remember all those good old days when I just synced up a full node—it was a few gigabytes of space—and ran Mist on top of it. All the—it's magic. Unfortunately it didn't scale.

**[37:29] SPEAKER_03:** At the Museum of Ethereum here I've got laptops running Geth 1.3.6, so Homestead Geth, and I've mined Homestead back to life. Any hard fork that happens, the old one doesn't go away, right? It doesn't disappear, it's just people don't associate any economic value with it and it kind of gets abandoned. What I've done is first GPU and then down to CPU mined that Homestead difficulty down to the level that you can CPU mine it again. I have got Mist running on those so we can go and transact, we can send a transaction between those. It should be possible to run AlethZero and AlethOne and Mix on that as well. I haven't had time to do that. ERC-20 tokens existed—you could have DAO tokens or Mist coin at that time. The assumption that people would run their own node and it would all be self-sovereign local apps certainly did not come to fruition.

**[38:56] SPEAKER_01:** That's when the light client came in and then we assumed that okay then we do the light client and it will be all solved.

**[39:00] SPEAKER_03:** That's it. That's what I was thinking—like right, I've got a full node running on my smartwatch that works and I'll just wait for you and the other guys to sort out light client and just turn that on and there we go.

**[39:11] SPEAKER_01:** Actually the light client protocol worked fine, it's just I spent a really crazy amount of time figuring out how it could be decently incentivized in a truly decentralized way. There was this idealism that yeah now we are almost done with everything so we just have to find a proper way for incentivizing things, but not in a way that there's a few companies where you can buy tokens, but truly in a decentralized way which is much harder. We have to somehow build decentralized trust and figure out market mechanisms that work without initial trust. This is something I spent years with and honestly I think I came up with some nice theoretical models and a lot of really complex code, but it was just again the wrong approach maybe also at the wrong time. We were just not there really.

**[40:29] SPEAKER_03:** BitTorrent has obviously worked for distributing content for many years, but then you do have this tragedy of the commons. The latest Hollywood movie someone has ripped it off and people want that, so that's going to get shared around no problem. But things which are only of interest to a smaller number of people without incentives, it's just a leeching problem. Good full node runners would contribute, they'll turn on LES as well, they would help supply that, but the incentives and economics are not easy.

**[41:16] SPEAKER_01:** Actually with BitTorrent also, if you really want to use it, it requires trackers where you buy some priority access. There are these private trackers and everything. Those are also not completely decentralized, but actually it does work. It's definitely better than nothing. For LES it wasn't really this easy because downloading movies was an application that everyone understood, that everybody used. Somehow with Ethereum it was always everyone felt the importance, but if you're nowhere near close to a really mature ecosystem, I don't think there would have been a big enough market really for these services to really work out in a market-based way. As we scale and accessing the whole dataset becomes more and more difficult, at a certain point I think we are going to have something like I imagined several years ago. It's just both timing and specifics. I was right about everything except timing and specifics.

**[42:51] SPEAKER_03:** There's a number of things that seemed like they would be easy and quick and obvious and have taken so many years. Like proof of stake—it was in the white paper, there was an assumption later in 2015 that it'll happen within six months, maybe three to six months. Then it's eight years before it actually went live. On storage, Filecoin's first white paper was in 2014 as well. Filecoin was not a new thing. IPFS was around before Ethereum as well. Whisper kind of went for a while and then now there's Waku. You've had Status driving a lot of those techs for a lot of those years as well. Jared Hope and team who were also doing Android version of the Java client, the same kind of time as I was looking at smartwatches.

**[44:06] SPEAKER_01:** Jared Hope was also very eagerly waiting for the fully functional light client.

**[44:12] SPEAKER_03:** They were building kind of decentralized WeChat, super app, but I guess kind of a competitor to Mist really, similar kind of thing, wanting to have a container for running dApps sitting on top of a local client again, having this completely self-sovereign server app stack. But not easy. I can't remember who it was that was telling me that when they first saw MetaMask, which was at DevCon One, that was one of the grantee winners—MetaMask—them thinking no, that's not what we want. We don't want some browser extension thing talking to a trusted endpoint. That's absolutely the opposite. What are these guys doing? And then that's become the standard flow.

**[45:18] SPEAKER_01:** This is still kind of an unsolved problem, to access everything in a truly decentralized way. I think we are getting there over time, it's just nothing is as simple as we initially imagined. There's a time for everything and I think decentralized infrastructure will be forced by scaling and things. Sometimes things just don't happen if they are not forced by some circumstance, some fact, some external factor. As long as it works in a lazy way to just connect MetaMask to Infura, until then it's the standard way.

**[46:15] SPEAKER_03:** I found two different talks of yours at DevCons talking really about light client. Do you remember—did you talk in London or was Shanghai your first?

**[46:22] SPEAKER_01:** I talked at London, also Shanghai, and also in Cancun. Those were the first two DevCons that were mostly about the light client. The first release of the light client protocol was in '16, so it was around that time. Later I already started to invent all the next chapters of decentralized technology. It was really naive of me, but I also had this project back then where I started to try to make logs provable efficiently. The initial attempt for that was in 2017 and now I'm back at it. Now I also have this trustless log index project. The approaches in 2017, that was just a more efficient way to organize the bloom filters, but it didn't really solve the problem of the bloom filters not adapting to the number of events. Also I never even proposed putting it into consensus which would have allowed the actual trustless proofs through the chain. That also proved to be a hard problem. This is one of the things I presented in Cancun, and also some kind of my ideas of state channels. Back then we didn't have L2s in a way. Actually back then layer two just meant something that happens off-chain, not necessarily another blockchain. I had these ideas about individual nodes all running their own blockchains and somehow organizing some off-chain calculations through that. It also assumed a lot about how those would operate and probably would have never worked.

**[48:50] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I suspect so. We had state channels and then we had Plasma, and then eventually coming into optimistic rollups and then ZK later. Just many, many different attempts. So in terms of the Geth team, has that been similar over the years or have you had larger and smaller amounts of people? Has it been a similar kind of flow through that time?

**[49:36] SPEAKER_01:** I would say it was pretty consistently around 10 people throughout all these years. Sometimes eight, nine, sometimes 11, 12, but really in this range. We did improve our internal processes during the years. Now we do have all this issue and pull request triage and everything. Really it's been—the team was also always small enough so that we didn't need a lot of processes. The team culture did obviously change especially with certain people coming and going, but I would say it was always a good team culture. I always liked the Geth team. That's also why I never really looked into moving to other teams or other projects, because I felt that team is the best place to do meaningful things.

**[50:54] SPEAKER_03:** It's funny because from the very start of Ethereum the intention was to have multiple clients. That was a very basic decision of saying we want a separation between the specification and the implementation, because we don't want it to be like Bitcoin where you've got one code base and then there's no competition.

**[51:21] SPEAKER_01:** For Bitcoin's complexity that approach worked, but for Ethereum's complexity I would say this was one of the best decisions. It also contributed to almost running out of money by the time we launched mainnet, but I would say it was money well wasted.

**[51:43] SPEAKER_03:** I would agree. It was not efficient but the outcome was very much worthwhile. When we switched to proof of stake we again successfully applied this pattern by funding multiple CL implementations and then testing every EL against every CL with all the combinations.

**[52:08] SPEAKER_03:** Five, is it five different primary consensus clients?

**[52:08] SPEAKER_01:** I think it's five. Notably none of those were within the Foundation either. They were all independent companies and teams.

**[52:58] SPEAKER_03:** On the execution side there have been a good number of different alternative execution clients over the years. How do you tend to work and interact in that kind of environment where you've got all these different teams? Starting with Parity and then Besu and Nethermind, how do you work with other teams?

**[52:58] SPEAKER_01:** We have all the ACD calls and testing calls. Mostly we all do have working clients all the time, so by default we don't need to interact a lot. We have to interact when we are testing out new features. There are the pre-proposed forums for that. Some people keep more contacts outside of Geth, some people are more turning inwards and just focusing on Geth issues. Actually I think in the first years communication was really not organized as well. We really just tried to figure out things and some people knew some people from the other teams. These days we have much better processes for this. Also it's a much bigger challenge because there's so many more people. This is also something I realized during the time we really started working on proof of stake. In 2017 it was the first time ether price went to several thousand dollars and the Foundation had money to hire new teams and found external teams. Until 2017 I mostly met non-go-ethereum people mostly at DevCons. Maybe those people who lived in Berlin or one of those cities where there were multiple people, they met more people, but I was always in Hungary and worked remotely. I mostly met most of the people at DevCons. Around 2018 when so many researchers and teams have been hired and there were also the CL teams, I remember DevCon 4 in Prague. Until then it was maybe 30, 40 people, I don't know. After every DevCon we stood up at the main stage and the group photo, like "We are the Ethereum Foundation." It was that many people. In 2018 I was just shocked—like who the hell are all these people? The whole Ethereum Foundation. It became a much bigger challenge but also now we do have all these official forums and also I try to go to more events, not just DevCons, in order to keep all the contacts live.

**[56:00] SPEAKER_03:** Looking back to when you first started working on Ethereum, did you have any kind of thought or vision of what things might have looked like 10 years later? Has it worked out as you expected or differently? What's your looking back on these 10 years, what's your thought?

**[56:24] SPEAKER_01:** I always had a lot of visions. Maybe I was too focused on vision sometimes. We all kind of have to imagine the future at every point even though we know we can't imagine it as it will turn out. It never turns out exactly the way we want, but we always have to have some kind of direction and we have to just have ideas of how things can turn out. Around 2017 I also realized that scaling will not happen just with L1. I also had these ideas about how we could solve problems more efficiently with not even rollups, just application-specific state channels and stuff like that. There was this really great project—Raiden. They properly implemented the protocol and everything. I think it has always struggled with not many people using it. It's a pain that the transactions are expensive but still somehow maybe we just missed some organizing force to really move to some kind of layer two solutions.

**[58:08] SPEAKER_03:** It was meant to be Lightning for Ethereum, that was the thought.

**[58:44] SPEAKER_01:** It was pretty much that idea, but then Lightning's kind of failed so maybe not surprising if an Ethereum version of that's not really got—because you've got routing issues. It's really complicated. The channels seem to work great for consistent static topologies. If you want to do merchant to merchant, channels work great, but opening those channels is still costly and non-trivial. I also never really—I installed it, I tried it, okay this is interesting, but I never really made a payment through Raiden because there was just no occasion where the other party really wanted Raiden transfer.

**[59:11] SPEAKER_03:** Well thank you very much, I think we can wrap it up there. Thanks for your time and thanks for all of your work on Geth over these very many years. Geth has always really been the backbone of Ethereum. New clients come and go but Geth remains.

**[59:41] SPEAKER_01:** Thank you for having me here.

**[59:41] SPEAKER_03:** Okay, thank you.