**[00:02] SPEAKER_05:** You are live, we are live. Hello, hello, and welcome everybody. Hello, hello. It's the week before ETHDenver, one of the major events of the Ethereum calendar, basically like the regional, the regional event for North America. So that's coming up. So, yeah, as well as the usual Strato crew, we have Colin the picker here. Is that how you pronounce your surname?

**[00:33] SPEAKER_00:** Colin, yeah, yeah, that's correct. That's my name. Hi everyone. Um, so yeah, Colin is my actual name. Most people know me under the name of Shiba Tarzan, which is like the crypto name I use, but um, yeah. My actual name is Colin, so sometimes Shiba Tarzan, sometimes Crypto Tarzan. So yeah, the Twitter handle is Crypto Tarzan. I mean, that was my name that I chose when I initially joined the space, and then when we did our like ENS thing with you, then I had to come up with an original ENS name and then it became Shiba Tarzan. I don't know how, but I came up with it, so I think it's quite funny if you think about like the meme, I guess it sticks forever.

**[01:11] SPEAKER_05:** Like Victor's "Victful Wong" that we've told the story of before. Yeah, yeah, probably is going to be the heritage, heritage handles story. So yeah, we're here. Myself, Bob Summerwill, Head of Ecosystem. Kieren James-Lubin, CEO. A bit... Wong, Victor Wong, CPO... 3-CPO... C3PO. And Michael Tan who has got a little demo for us.

**[01:46] SPEAKER_01:** Which we're going to start with. Sure. Hey everyone. So back here with another demo Strato. For the last week and week and a half going forward... we're currently in a trading and referral contest which I'll be showing you an update on. Let's start with that sec. So right now our top gainer is anonymously 10210d28f... four percent gain, you know, not very much. So everyone's got a chance if you would like to and to have a late entry in. As for the referral contest, we currently have three by this user in our community and yeah, a couple of referrals here.

We're also going to be talking about the vault that we've added as of last Friday. Let me show you that. So this is... this is the current position of all position I have on Mainnet. Deposit 144.96 of gold and I'm currently... I've currently earned a dollar 84. But let's do a little demo on the testnet. Make my first deposit here. This account currently has USDST and SOV and silver—oh no, silver. Let's put five USDST. Firm deposit. Successfully deposited. Great.

So if you click this link you can see what tokens are currently in the vault. It's a market making vault that just kind of rebalances the pools and we give everybody an opportunity to participate in some of the APY on the Mainnet. It's currently 102.67, which is great. You can also find recent activity, the swaps by the vault here, and this is all done with our automated market making bot which you can actually find a blog about on our website. And if you ever want to withdraw you just hit the withdrawal. And there you have it.

**[03:59] SPEAKER_04:** You hear me? Yeah. Jumping on the bot quickly. So the APY obviously phenomenally high. Um, as the assets go up, it will probably not be as phenomenally high. Um, it is measuring the true change in underlying asset value. So theoretically all the trades are profitable, um, or it doesn't do them. But it's also the... so then the risk is sort of inventory risk, right? Like it still has to hold ETH and and so on, but it is up in absolute terms.

And when you deposit to it, it's sort of one asset at a time, mark-to-market. So if you've got some gold tokenized, you deposit that. You've got some ETH, you deposit that, and so on. Um, but you can't just pick and choose on the withdrawal. So you you just get a sort of pro-rata share of the bot's assets on withdrawal, which hopefully have increased. But just just so you know, so if you deposit and then you you're confused when you get a basket of assets back, that's that's the why. Um, but yeah, APY is very high at the at the moment. Um, we're excited about it. Everyone take advantage now where you can.

**[05:19] SPEAKER_05:** Okay, well thank you. I guess we'll we'll allow... we'll move on to Denver. Do you want to hang around, Mike? You look at you—are you coming to Denver?

Uh, yes. Um, I'm arriving Monday night.

Excellent. So I was trying... I was counting how many times I've been to ETHDenver and I think 2009 was my first. So I think this is maybe my third or my fourth. Anyone else veterans of Denver?

**[05:40] SPEAKER_04:** I went early and then I sort of we... you know, we had a few years where we just sort of skipped it, um, in our deep in our enterprise days. But I think we we went and sponsored in 2017 actually. And um, so it was still kind of had like, um, you know, uh, organic feel to it. I think it still does. I mean, it's one of the unique ones where... by the way, okay, so how are the tickets done? I know we've dealt with it at a corporate level. It's a free event right? But yeah, is it like a lottery? Like how do you...

**[06:20] SPEAKER_05:** No, no, it's it's a bit weird. Yeah. So you can go for free, right? That's kind of a a key thing, right? You know, it started out very hackathon-y. Um, so it's always been a, you know, grassroots volunteers like no ticket prices for you know, normies. Um, but but you have to join the SporkDAO for your free ticket. So you have to do this onboarding. At least now I think you don't actually have to use a wallet. I think you used to in some prior years you had to. Um, there seems to be like a, you know, like a a Web 2.0 onboarding kind of flow, gasless, that gets you there. Um, but there's quite a few screens of stuff to to click through, that's for sure. Or you can just pay. Um, but uh but yes, I mean I know what the numbers are gonna be this year. Probably around 20,000 from what I understand. That seems to be what what what the case was uh was last time. Um, how about yourself Victor, you've been a few times?

**[07:41] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, um, like Kieren I was there early and then um, I think I went to... again my first kind of kickstart was last year, right? Yeah. Now we're going back again so...

**[07:58] SPEAKER_00:** And I know it's your first time, Colin.

Yeah, for me, for me it's gonna be the first time. Um, I mean I started actually going last year to ETH events, so um, this is the first time that there's like an opportunity for me to go to Denver. So yeah, I'm excited. I heard like a lot of different opinions. People say it's great, other people say kind of changed over the years and it's a bit more, you know, more marketing related and less, you know, core Ethereum stuff. But yeah, I mean I'm gonna try to experience it for myself and see what it's all about. I mean like I said, 20,000 people is still... I mean it's the only major US event I think uh there is in the year.

So yeah, I'm I'm quite excited to explore it. Um, I think it's gonna be great. Also they like changed the the format from what I heard. I mean maybe Bob you can explain a bit on like what changed there, um, and if it's like gonna have an impact on uh the previous years of course. But yeah, I'm quite excited for my first time.

**[09:10] SPEAKER_05:** Have you been before, Mike? Have you been before, Mike?

Oh sorry, yeah, I was there last year with you.

Oh yes. And that was your first?

Uh, yes. That was my first.

There we go, there we go. So, so yeah. I mean, Colin, you were you were at EthCC last year. I mean I think fairly comparable-ish sizes. I kind of kind of think of like, you know, EthCC is the European one and ETHDenver was the North America one. You know, kind of kind of similar-ish size.

**[09:33] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it's... you see just that like I feel like it had like a lot of side events. I mean because like for EthCC the the main event tickets were just like... I mean they were super pricey. I think it was like 500 Euros for tickets. Um, and just like many people or like many developers just came to get to Cannes and then they just like went to all the side events to get like the free drinks, free food like always, and then try to connect somewhere, try to get a job. I mean I spoke to like many people at EthCC that were actually trying to get a job into the crypto space and they said, "Oh yeah, the main event is too expensive." Um, so that's like that's why I also think there were so many side events at EthCC. I mean for like the location, Cannes is not that big. I mean Bob, you explored it. I mean compared to like a city like Denver, it's like super small. Um, and then I mean there were so many side events it was just incredible.

**[10:17] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I mean I think it's it's it's become the curse of the major events, um, is they they kind of become like a, you know, a meeting point. You know, they're like, "All right, if you're there like people will be there," right? You know, so they become like a uh, you know, "Are you going to be there?" And it's kind of like not so tied even to the main event. It's just like, "Are you physically going to be in that place on those days? Yes? Great. Where are you going to be? What are you going to be doing?" I don't know, there's all these different side events, you know, just sign up, sign up for a hundred things and see what yeah, what you get and see where people are.

They they can be very very fragmented. I mean, um, I mean my understanding of the the move to Cannes was partly to try and like counter that because at least it's like a physically smaller place so the side events have to be kind of uh closer together so you're not so so fragmented. Um, what I when I went to EthCC the prior year in Brussels, I felt that was very very fragmented. Like I think, you know, that was kind of a really bad kind of year that they had to sort of react to. Um, and it has been a criticism of ETHDenver as well. I mean one thing I've seen that's happening in Denver this year, um, is like happened in DevConnect, if kind of like the world fair... lots of things under the same roof. There seems to be kind of a a push to that kind of thing, right? Of saying, "Well, we're gonna get lots of threads under that same, you know, banner. It's like come to the main site and stay." Right? You know, there's enough going on that you don't have to leave. You've got these different threads happening. Um...

**[12:16] SPEAKER_03:** Well I think one of the challenges that ETHDenver has, and I kind of felt this at DevConnect this year, what was that the event itself is in the middle of nowhere. So you got to kind of make a call between like... Yeah. And a lot of the side events are downtown. So you got to kind of make a call of like, do I stay downtown or do I go out there? And it kind of depends on who you're meeting really. You know, sometimes it just makes more sense to kind of stay downtown.

**[12:42] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, a day here, a day in the middle, a day on the other side.

**[12:45] SPEAKER_03:** There's no middle, that's the problem, right? Like there's just... you just gotta go one or the other. You know, I almost uh, I tried a Bird scooter for the first time last year trying to shuffle shuttle myself and I... that was terrifying. I'll never do that again. I'm way too...

**[13:09] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I I went on a Lime scooter thing in Austin one time and it was like, this is so dangerous.

**[13:16] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, in Austin, yeah. Wow, okay. That's just like a rattly crappy bit of road at the side. No helmet, just like, this is bad.

**[13:26] SPEAKER_05:** Well one of the things I saw as part of our sponsorship which was quite interesting at ETHDenver is they actually have a condition in there to be a sponsor of the main event that you have to promise not to have a competing event during core hours. I thought that was quite interesting. It's like, right, hey you want to be in the gang? No straight competition. Because I mean that's like that's the that's a real killer thing, right? It used to be side events were you know in the evening, days before, days after. And now it's just, "No, we're just like we're having our main conference on exactly the same day as you like just straight competition." Um, yeah, it's funny how the norms have changed. Like Victor, you talked about that in with regard to Ripple and and uh and Consensus.

**[14:35] SPEAKER_03:** Oh no, it was Sibos... Toronto Sibos, yeah, it was. Yes, that they uh, that they kind of got booted out and then they made their parallel conference. Though their parallel conference, you know, had... and this was a few short years ago, but very amazing and controversial at the time that you would dare to you know have some competing uh content in the same city at the same time. Yeah. I mean it was uh yes, and...

Well I think the big thing was they had these like giant Ripple buses in front that like buried you. So it was just like, yeah. Like you know... um, also in the days when uh they saw blockchain as direct competitor to SWIFT, I think that that ship has sailed... like I think it definitely is a competitor.

**[15:12] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I mean, um, talking about sort of the the corporate thing that you were mentioning there, Colin. So you know, there has been some criticism of ETHDenver specifically for having like headline sponsors that are "Ethereum killers" in quotes. Um, yeah, so it's like you know, "How dare you have whatever, like Polkadot as a primary sponsor or BNB, um, you know, or Cosmos or what have you?" But but they've they've always had this uh, they've always had a line so it's not not like we had at Token where you've got Tron everywhere and Justin Sun's face pasted all over the shop, you know? Like that's not happening. And you're not seeing like BitBoy as a main speaker has happened in uh in Blockchain Futurist in uh uh in in Toronto.

So so there is a line which I think is sort of being like you know, "Ethereum and friends," with a number of those friends having become L2s or EVM support over time anyway. So it's kind of like a big tent vision. Um, but also saying you know that that sponsorship is key for keeping the tickets free for normal people which is...

**[16:45] SPEAKER_03:** Well now now that Vitalik doesn't like L2s, do do we still have that? Here we go. Yes, yes exactly. Like, well the other thing that's a little bit different, Colin, about ETHDenver... it's like you have like the hardcore dev conferences: DevCon, DevConnect. And then you have like what I call the commercial conferences, you know, Consensus, Token... are these ones. But ETHDenver is kind of in the middle. I think they try to be the culture conference but it's a little bit of both. So it's...

**[17:23] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think also like for example like DevConnect is like almost fully organized by the Ethereum Foundation. I mean they have like a full DevConnect team for it. Um, so that kind of makes sense. But like from what I spoke to a few guys of the EF also lately and they say like they have been making their way more into Denver this year than they did before. Like there is going to be an um, an Ethereum Foundation day if I am right. Yeah, there's going to be like a full day for them. Um, and they have like a whole section also this time.

So like you say like I think what you say, Victor, is a bit in the middle this time. Um, and absolutely like on other events like like Token Dubai, Token Singapore, that's like even more to the commercial side. And I mean you won't see like the EF that much there. Um, not much of the of the core principles I think. So yeah, I mean I think it's a bit in the middle but I see still like a lot of chances and opportunities. I mean it is still like the biggest like I said before, the biggest US event, 20,000 people coming there. I mean there's still... I mean it's it's a big audience but you don't need to lie about it's a big audience still. So I think there's a lot of chances for them.

**[18:26] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, and Kieren, like in in the past I think like the first time we went there were like a couple hundred people and then like next year when it got huge quick, yeah, it felt you know familiar...

**[18:41] SPEAKER_04:** Right, it was kind of... and it was very Denver-like, you know. It was like down the street from the dispensaries, there's kombucha on tap, you know. I assume that maybe still is there but um, yeah, it had a kind of like uh hippie agora feel to it which maybe it still does. We're gonna we're gonna see.

**[19:00] SPEAKER_05:** The Sports Castle was a cool building. Um, so apparently I I I was wondering like why it had the setup it had, which is like these sort of like stories with like ramps around between them. But apparently it used to be like a car warehouse place. That's what interesting. But but you just had this multi-level thing with sorts of ramps going up and around it. And some of them were were you know just were talks. Uh, and you know there's only a few hundred. I might be getting this wrong but I I remember...

**[19:32] SPEAKER_04:** Um, so I think the venue has changed again at some point. It was um, like a rodeo, right?

**[19:39] SPEAKER_05:** No, it's the same. It's the same venue but a different building on that same complex, I'd say. Gotcha.

**[19:46] SPEAKER_04:** But I remember I was catching up with John some years ago and he was telling me just the, you know, the legs he had to go to to deal with the amount of people who want to come. Uh, which are pretty extreme. Like I you know, on the order of renting out a stadium, which is pretty funny to me.

**[20:04] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, it's certainly a a pretty major point of uh kind of undertaking that. Um, but uh but yeah there has always been a uh, you know, a large sort of cultural and artsy kind of part to it as well. Um, so so yeah, I mean the thing I am mainly involved with that is uh is this Museum of Ethereum. So uh when you come into the venue, you go through the main ticketing, you you there is going to be a an area which is called uh uh BUIDL Alley, New BUIDL City, which is kind of a Blade Runner-y sort of futurescape. Somewhere like Meow Wolf or Harry Potter... Diagon Alley kind of kind of vibes uh of going through this area. And there are going to be various different uh you know sub-areas and zones in there.

Um, but yes, one of the one of the large ones there is is Museum of Ethereum, uh which we are sponsoring uh as our Golem, Golem of DevCon Zero presentation, uh age, and then ourselves DevCon 1 era. So super OGs still going. Um, and it's a mixture of physical and uh digital artifacts drawing largely from the early days of Ethereum. You know, bios and interviews and everything. Um, also uh some photos through 2014 largely from Taylor Gerring. Um, also some of them from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in uh in April 2014.

Um, and then the other thing I've been working on for that, which I I think is really really cool, uh, I've called the Ethereum Time Machine. So what I'm providing there is an authentic experience of running original software. So I have got two 2010 era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky ThinkPads. And um, so I was trying to get back to Frontier software. Um, I can run Frontier software. Um, however the second phase is actually mining. So the goal I had is: can you run you know 2015 era software on contemporary hardware, CPU mine the chain back to life? So that's what I've been working on like in the background for a couple of months. Um, so basically like GPUs at first get the thing moving and then as it's moving the difficulty's coming down and you're easing off so... I'm in in the final phases of that. I wanted to revive Frontier. Sadly that's a very very expensive proposition that maybe some other future sponsor would like to drop 15 or 20k of GPU on. But but yes, I have revived Homestead. So you know what you'll have there is is is running Mist. Running Mist at Homestead, CPU mined transactions back and forth, sitting there getting you know the real experience of 10 year old software, original chain, original protocol. So that was that was that was fun.

**[24:06] SPEAKER_03:** So to get to that... optional in the "real experience" or like... I'm sorry, is pulling out your hair and frustration optional or required? Because I remember a lot of that myself. I'm just hoping they don't crash too often.

**[24:30] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I I remember Mist crashing a lot. Like I when we were playing around with it. So yes, there will be reboot uh instructions uh on on hand. Um, so there's there's there's there's there's also a big chunk which uh Jessica Angel, the creative director, had has taken the lead on, uh to do with some orbs that you can put your hands on and reach consensus between each other and light up different phases. Um, and then there is also a uh a centerpiece which is still in motion so I won't talk about. But uh but yeah, uh you know the hope is that a good chunk of those 20,000 people are gonna are gonna walk in and they're gonna experience a bit of uh a bit of Ethereum in the history. Uh really touching on those early days and people that they may have got no clue were around. Um, and have a little bit of a flavor of of what that year was like. And get your hands on...

**[25:47] SPEAKER_03:** And and you're speaking on the main stage about it too, right? So like...

**[25:54] SPEAKER_05:** I am talking about early days of Ethereum as well. Yeah, that's on this... this there's a stage that's like storytelling or culture. I can't remember quite what what that's called. It's called like New France Stage, I think. So uh, so yeah I uh I'll be giving a little talk there. Though likely what I'll do is is play some ancient videos for people's amusement. There are, you know, there's really fun stuff from the very early days uh that a lot of people again they they they won't have seen. I mean particularly that Toronto Bitcoin Expo. So that was that was in April 2014 and it was like the second time probably that most of the people on the team had met each other. You know, some some had met in Miami in the January and then some again met uh in that April. But at that point Ethereum was... it was like a company. So Ethereum were the headline sponsors for that event and they had a booth and they like gave away hundreds or thousands of t-shirts and flyers. And so it was uh, you know, it was the Ethereum company for the one and only time that you've ever had that. Though with the new EF being engaged again, that's... they're not being the company but they are starting to you know to have a presence at events again, which which I think is a very positive uh thing to see. You know, that engagement. You know, they're obviously never going to have an EF stand up [at] Token or what have you. But having a presence at ETHDenver and EthCC absolutely makes sense so hopefully they'll they'll have a good presence.

**[27:48] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. No I mean we're looking forward to see you speak, Bob, but um, I remember like I think you were kind of planning the same, I mean or like also speaking about Ethereum early days at DevConnect but then there was like all issues with like the Wi-Fi or something or the internet I remember. So I hope this time the like the internet is going to be good because I remember like DevConnect so many people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything. Like it was super badly the internet. And you can say okay it's like Argentina but I mean come on, like they should have like at least decent decent type of internets surely.

**[28:19] SPEAKER_05:** Hopefully. I mean yeah I... it will not be a problem in Denver I can assure you that. You know they've they've got a good... they've been there a good chunk of time and they they know what they're doing. But yeah, the Wi-Fi in Argentina was was dreadful.

**[28:31] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I mean we we went to off-site coffee shops for Wi-Fi and you know... so I don't think it was a general Argentina problem. It was definitely...

**[28:46] SPEAKER_05:** No yeah I think it was just like a capacity problem because there were so many people there. And I mean the the problem at the Ethereum Cypherpunk Congress was they only got in the venue like two or three hours before the event. It was an absolute like rush job. Um, but yeah I mean they did everything on like the volunteers.

**[29:04] SPEAKER_00:** I mean they had like so many volunteers because of course like the most of the core organization of Secure Privacy they were just traveling. I mean it was at the beginning of DevConnect so most of the people were just arriving. Um, and they said "okay we're gonna let it uh be run by by volunteers to set up all." So yeah maybe there was like an issue but I mean it was great. Just like I think you just unfortunate you couldn't do your talk there but um, yeah hopefully to see in Denver would be amazing.

**[29:31] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I mean uh I that talk I will record. I will re-record with them at some point. That still hasn't happened. Um, but yeah I mean it was just a bit of a mess on the day. But yeah Denver's fine. I mean they've been planning it for perfect forever. Um, so yeah what what's happening with Book of Ethereum? How's how's things in your world?

**[29:54] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I mean we're trying uh to manage the the winter period of crypto as we speak. Um, it's uh I mean it's crazy times actually. Um but we're we're doing our best. We're managing things, um, just focusing on like building the community. Um, really like making time to invest in community building I think it's like super important, you know. Um, I see like these months of a big chance to like improve UI/UX, improve onboarding strategies because I feel like that's something that really like we still miss um in, if I speak in general crypto, Ethereum specifically also. Um, I mean because like they always speak about the millions of people we're still missing out on board but then you also need to do something about it. Um and I see like these times are are pretty good to do it. Um I mean like there's slow volume days, um markets are like terrible at the moment so yeah it's it is what it is. So we need to look at other things to do now.

Um, but yeah we're like uh really active still. Um and yeah it's gonna be our first time in Denver now so and we will do other events this year also. Um I think we'll be at EthCC also this year. Um and we're going to DevCon probably also in Mumbai? Really looking forward to that one as well. Um, but yeah for the rest like we're just like I said building the community. Um, focusing on um the onboarding and UI/UX and I mean we will see when when the markets pick up again. But yeah for now it's just a bit low volume. Uh, I mean like I said they call it the winter days so yeah we'll see. It's my first time experience experiencing this so yeah we'll see how it goes. Um, but yeah I feel like the sentiment all over is a bit lower. I mean I feel people are kind of like... I wouldn't say depressed but you know most of the investors are like at least a bit down and low sentiment because of these times so yeah.

**[31:50] SPEAKER_04:** Do you... I mean I think we all feel that a little bit. Do we prefer though like... the euphoria times have some real downsides too, you know. It's kind of hard to be... there's so much noise in the euphoria times. I kind of like the quiet times, you know. Um, although it's it's been a weird uh this past you know cycle if you all believe in that. Um, um there's not really been any much too much of an alt run-up, you know, which we had in the the previous one. And so I think the euphoria never set in to the same way. It's sort of been like still a value accrual to to staple assets mostly and a few breakouts but you know it's not like like the like it was. Um...

**[32:33] SPEAKER_00:** Um yeah no I I don't really believe also in like the four-year cycle or whatever it's called. I mean I came in even after like the last supposedly perfect four-year cycle but I I mean I don't really know. If you would ask those people they can never really explain on what it's based like. And I mean even the best traders in the world they cannot explain how the financial markets work like, what is going to be the future. I mean they all just guess a bit on their feeling and you know they they put things out of context to kind of try to find an explanation for things.

Um, but yeah like for example right now at like the if we if you look at Ethereum, the asset just um over the past two years, I mean the way it's been moving there is no real like clarification for it. Like why it's going to a new all-time high and then again like completely down. I mean it feels like there is some unexpected like market manipulation going on that like we don't have under control in some way. I mean you could say like in the in in after like the April crash last year, you could say okay like people like Tom Lee and others brought back some some hype with with their staking announcements and all these things and like the treasury companies and I mean it was a big thing in the summer. Um, and then you saw like it doing very well. Um and then with the with the upgrade um in the end of November that Ethereum did was massively. Um and you would think like everything looked perfectly uh fundamentally for like January and like Q1 in common. I mean even like Tom Lee did some crazy predictions on the price of Ethereum but um yeah. Like you see it's not it's not what it looks like. I mean it's not because fundamentally everything is looking fine that for that reason also like the price is going to that target.

So yeah in my opinion it's just unpredictable. I mean I cannot predict it. Maybe you guys can. I cannot predict it. Um, it's it's kind of hard and it's just it just is what it is. I mean in my opinion I'm just from the perspective that we have to undergo it and see what's going on and just focus on on the building. Because like I said, I've said this also many times to our community: like if you're not here for like the building, the movement, the culture, then you will not last. If you're just purely here based on like the temporary price of the assets, then then you're never gonna be here for for many years I think. So it's also quite like a different a difficult space for that. So yeah it's just my opinion.

**[34:53] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, it's it's it's funny because I I... my current thought about what's going on is that if you if you look at previous winters and you know I know we've been through quite a few years but like they've been sort of more internal focused. Like the thing you could point to that kind of triggered them is like something happening in the crypto sphere itself, like ICOS going bust or NFTs or meme coins or whatever. And now um you know, it's really a lot of things in the world are happening simultaneously and crypto is just one of those things. Right? Like metal prices have changed, equity prices are changed, currency prices have changed. And so I I I my current thing is that it is a little bit different this time because I think what's happening is crypto is becoming part of the macro infrastructure and I think we'll look back and kind of think, okay, this is the time that crypto did just become part of the regular financial system, I think.

**[36:05] SPEAKER_05:** Sorry, so moving more away from speculation and more to utility?

**[36:09] SPEAKER_03:** Well I mean there I don't know if it's more speculation or utility. Like you could call the stock markets affected by a lot of speculation too, but um I think it's moving more toward uh a more stable view of like people's view on what they are. And the use of it is kind of becoming more stable and and widespread. Like the number of holders are you know like... I think the choices that people have are not like "oh do I move my crypto bags from one crypto to another?" It's like you know it's clear that people are kind of considering like "okay should I move it into metal?" It's like we saw that happening. Or "Should I move it into you know other assets that are completely outside the crypto sphere?"

**[36:59] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, it's a funny thing and tokenization makes that a lot easier. We saw the um, what, Erik Voorhees buy some huge quantity of PAXG and then to hit the internet in a big way. And I think on balance this is a good thing although yeah it makes you a little bit... yeah it's it's it's not the old days, right? Um and I've said before you know it's it's unfortunate right that ETH, Bitcoin etc. seem to trade like a high beta tech stock. Um, it's a they're risk-on assets still, um, and they're not behaving like metals which you know are somewhat anti-correlated let's say with what the stock market does. Um, but um you know I think so so you know the the positive side is um RWAs can help achieve a certain type of like practical day-to-day sovereignty where you have a basket of assets that um are both resilient from a price change perspective. In addition, you know, the RWAs may be a little bit less purely cypherpunk but again we've seen um strange thing also. Like so stables in circulation have like doubled year over year a little bit more, and floating crypto prices went down. You know, and um I suppose there's no in principle reason those things have to go together. I mean eventually usage goes up you'll see crypto prices go up and then kind of a commodity way but um yeah. You know, um, interesting times.

**[38:38] SPEAKER_03:** Well I I think on that note like the other thing that's not, you know... typically when we've had these other winters total volumes have gone down. And that's not necessarily true now. So I I you know one way to kind of think about it that I've been thinking of is that we thought crypto was the hedge against the mainstream markets but I think the actual mechanism is DeFi. Like people are using DeFi to hedge in all kinds of different places and because it's global and 24/7 it allows you to do that way more efficiently than you know... like it's the rails themselves that are the hedge.

**[39:13] SPEAKER_04:** There's a lot of leverage in the system now too. Um like the... still people believe that the the big sell-offs have been liquidation driven. So we saw the beginning kind of like in the FTX cycle, we saw the beginning on 10/10 and things are still shaking out. Um, I've seen tweets today about BlockFills suspending um withdrawals. Uh so supposedly a bunch of big firms are just trying to manage maybe effective insolvency from leverage. And you know it's just it's more leverage than before. The Hyperliquids and the like kind of created 20x effective leverage out of thin air, um, I believe. Uh and you know there's good good use for these products and so it just means the swings are going to be bigger, the the blow-ups and and so on. Um so yeah, interesting interesting times all around.

**[40:11] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, like what I also feel a bit is that um like what Victor has been saying like I think DeFi um is gonna be... I'm making a major move. I mean it has to be also because like I said, the stables have doubled. Um and I think that's also because people take less risks and especially like the builders they're taking less risk. They're like exploring ways like, "How can DeFi like generate a passive income over time without like needing to take unnecessary risk?" And I think if you look into it it's like... I mean it's a big... I mean like I said I think if they can explore it more and we can actually do what like um people like if Vitalik and and Gavin would have been saying from the very beginning on like "that's like what are you gonna build on Ethereum?" And all the places to build like applications.

I mean we haven't seen I think all the possibilities of Ethereum yet. Um like I said the past cyclists we have seen a lot of speculative things and we have the NFTs hype and everything but like the the the real like upcoming trend of DeFi applications that are real businesses built by individuals also... you don't need a big corporation anymore to start your own business on Ethereum. Um and I think that's gonna be a major one. Also what I see recently is that like for... like in the past it was very difficult for people that were no like software engineers to build something on Ethereum. But what you see now is, and the EF is also quite bullish on all these things, that are the agents. Especially with like the Claude bot stuff that's going around now... the model book... I mean even we as a community um we have done our own ERC-8004 agent with like now participating in hackathons for us with like building things for us. I mean we're exploring with it as well. Um, it is the future and I think um a part of like bringing people in decentralized, you know, the self-custody story and all these things... I think the opportunity for people that will never be able to build something or to create something, to now with like the invention of AI and agents to build their own DeFi applications, I think that's going to be something we're going to see in the next years, I feel like.

Um and it's also something I feel like the builders are more pushing forward to. I mean it's kind of the subjects and topics everywhere right now uh and less like the highly speculative or volatile assets, you know. So I think building building infrastructure during this winter is going to be in your advantage um yeah.

**[42:38] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, and I totally agree with that because it's like, you know, without the noise... I I I said in the article, I didn't know if this was just because I'm Canadian and I have a fondness for winter generally, but there is a quiet building that happens. And you know, Ethereum itself would have never launched at the time it did unless it was for the winter we had it there. Like it also forces you to kind of focus on what is really meaningful for the future. So I think that's the you know, that's one... like no one likes the pain of bad prices but it does allow you to kind of uh refocus your efforts on things that are on a smaller number of super important things.

**[43:14] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I think it's good as long as you don't die. As long as you don't get completely wrecked.

**[43:22] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, basically. Yeah I mean that's what I mean. It's kind of hard to like build products but like fully be dependent on the price of your assets. Um you need to like find solutions for that. Like I said like with with stablecoins, like building up yields, farming yields, all these things, like generating your fees and everything. Like there's so many possibilities you can explore on. Um I mean it's also because of the the long bad times especially. I mean on on-chain if you look on-chain there has never been a good moment since I think um the just before Trump got elected I think it was the last time we saw like some big on-chain volume. So since then all those teams, bro, they have they need to look at other opportunities.

Um so yeah that was what I've been saying uh seeing lately. Um but I think that like the actual the projects that are building the assets of them will they will recover in due time um if they can like adapt to this new way of moving. And those that will adapt I think those will be the ones that are going to be successful. And if you cannot adapt and if you just stay in like the old format of like "oh we're just gonna do some hype and you know just purely based of like no value no fundamentals behind it," then I think it's just gonna die like Bob says. Um but if you actually like really can adapt to the future and use all of these things and push forward I think better times are ahead 100%. But you just gotta continue and um I think the real projects um that are non-stop uh continuing to build I think those will be the ones that will make it eventually.

**[44:54] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, and I think also you gotta take a broader view. Like if my thesis of that crypto is now part of the mainstream is correct, then you're not just comparing to other crypto projects, you're comparing to legacy banking systems that were basically built in the 70s and haven't been updated. So like if you think like now the question is like where are the next booms coming from? It's that are people going to trust their money on those systems or are they going to move to global decentralized 24/7 systems, you know? And I think for all of us the answer is obvious but I think the world is just starting to catch up to it.

**[45:30] SPEAKER_00:** Like in in abroad, yeah exactly. I think it's like a really important moment now because a lot of the banks are starting to you know really get into crypto now. They start they want to bring crypto to their platform so they can uh handle their customers directly because there's coming more and more interest. People want to buy Ethereum, people want to buy Bitcoin, people want to buy Solana or whatever, and the banks need to provide for it. Especially in Europe, I'm seeing this right now. Like um, they are trying to push forward with like new laws to be voted so that the banks are allowed to like handle crypto and stuff. But I see already like kind of issues with it and it will be like purely people that will own the asset and they will see purely as an investment and unfortunate what I'm seeing is that people if they go with the bank way they will never be able to like explore their full potential. Like they won't even be able to have their own ownership of the wallet. The bank will host it again like they always do. Um, they're just gonna see it as a new way of like stock investment type of thing um and they're not really like knowing what's going on.

So that's why I think um as a project now in the on-chain space and in DeFi, um you really have to focus on onboarding and UX because there is a lot of potential now to get people on on... I mean I wouldn't say your side but like to get them into DeFi so they don't choose the banks because otherwise we're going to get into like a big trouble where it's going to be a fight whether like the banks can onboard more people or whether we can onboard more people. So I think that's something to look into. Uh, and especially it's what I'm trying to do for my generation. I mean all the people that are currently at like at uni studying uh or just like young age, they have like the potential to make the difference. Um so yeah I think that's really important because otherwise all these things we're doing like the building is just not gonna matter uh I feel like. So we have a big chance, we have all the infrastructure, we have the technology, we just have to focus on onboarding and UX. That's I think the most important.

**[47:31] SPEAKER_05:** And I think agents are maybe our largest customer base moving forward. Feels like.

**[47:39] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, that's a really good because everybody's just a while before legacy financial can deal with agents. They'll figure it out eventually but it's like there's a lot of problems you need you know a meatspace person to deal with when you've got a bank account that you just you know don't have to in the crypto world. I I'm just adding on to Colin's point... one thing I like to say is I look at like an Uber as a model. In the sense that you know, they're operating you know a little gray, right? Like they they kind of you know they're going and letting people give car rides and there the taxi union doesn't like it and and so on. And consumers picked it, right? And you know at least Uber mostly won in the United States. You know, they they get taxed and so on uh in Europe sometimes it's just going to the the it's just routing for the the local taxis and so on. But it's a model people picked it because it was awesome, right?

Crypto is awesome but it's awesome like unevenly. You know it's there's just a lot of sharp edges that you know you you don't know how to deal with um uh as a as a newbie. It's a little bit unfriendly to people who are not super expert. A lot of jargon, a lot of you know it's it kind of feels like an insidery culture, right? And so we've got to be um more you know more more kind of normie friendly, I would say, in the approach. Yeah you know the tech how you talk about the tech and so on. and it's it to Colin's point it is absolutely a fight for the same you know deposits if you will, right? Yeah and crypto is more capable than what the legacy financial um world has in in ways we also just haven't even imagined yet. Um but yeah it just needs enough liquidity and and whatnot to see all that happen. So you know I think um so it's by the way big guiding principle for the things we build is is to try to make keep it true to cypherpunk values to the maximal possible extent but make it as easy as possible to onboard the regular human being.

**[49:51] SPEAKER_03:** Well and and I think one thing you know and Colin you're talking about UX which I think people think of as um just like how things look or how you interact with it. And you know Bob, we were you kind of coined that term that I like like "agentic experience." I think part of it is how should the system behave in a variety of ways. And I think one aspect that crypto hasn't done well and we are really kind of focused on is how do you create sensible defaults where if you're coming to the system you're highly unlikely to get wrecked? Like like other systems tend to push you to be super highly levered and you know when markets hit these winters you know you you just get destroyed and you you never want to come back, right? And so like it is I think part of the overall experience. It's like what are what does safety look like? And I don't think it's about cyber security as much as it is about you know, like I said, sensible defaults that you should keep in order. And you know banks impose that on you so there should be some user choice here. But you know you gotta give users options at least at the starting point and then move them toward more leverage or riskier behaviors when they understand the system... which is kind of hard to do right now.

**[51:09] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah I mean exactly. Yeah sorry go on, but uh I mean I just I just want to add that like that the thing is I feel like what I mean with UX is also... I mean I look back at my own story. I mean I joined when I was 16, was quite young. Um, but I'll when I joined in the first year like all the money that I brought into crypto I lost it all. Like um that was my first year of like experiencing crypto and what many of my friends also experienced of people where I came in touch with first mostly on like these random Telegram groups and and this is how I entered the crypto space basically. And um but then back then I was so young and I was just thinking it's all normal and this is like the way you need to get yourself into it. But now I'm looking at like a more um like business perspective and seeing like "hey this is like absolutely not normal." I mean we're like... we're more like people that getting in are just getting out again because they don't feel the safety that they should feel. They don't feel they don't get the support they should get. They don't get the right things to use, like the right tools, the right um onboarding guidelines and everything. And I think that's what I mean with UX, with onboarding.

All the companies building something on crypto should really make a priority of it that they can bring the right people in um and that they can educate them first before even letting them just explore the on-chain world. Because otherwise like like Victor said, you're gonna get wrecked, you're gonna lose money, people will just go out and like they will speak bad about the space. I mean everyone will be speaking bad about crypto. It's all just because they got wrecked on whether it's a random coin, they got scammed because they pushed they clicked the wrong links or their wallet got drained or they send the money to the wrong wallets... like all these type of cases it could be so easily prevented just if we like kind of educate everyone that is coming into it. And I know it's like time consuming maybe and it's like it takes time to do this but it's super important if you want to be like successful in the long term I mean. And that's just something that I really feel from my from my own experience that we should focus on more.

Um and like like Kieren said and this is the last thing I want to add too is like yes, and this is also what Vitalik has been saying in his recent posts: like yes like the cypherpunk culture is super important, decentralization, self-sovereignty, like self-custody, all super important, privacy and all these things. And we have been building the tech, we have been doing absolutely amazing on the builder side, but please like keep it to that. And for the for the customers, for the public, it's not relevant if you're not a like computer science guy or like someone who built. It's not relevant for you to read these things or to first start with. I mean because then you're going to be completely lost and you wouldn't understand. Keep this on the background but bring it over to your customers as like "hey this is super safe to use" ... these are all the advantages but like explain it to them like Kieren says in a normie way that they all can understand. And I think if we can really push forward these type of methods then um we're going to see a big progress uh yeah over the next years.

**[54:07] SPEAKER_03:** That's just... well and Colin your your story is bang on like I mean you're super brave for losing everything and then coming back and re-committing. But I I think I think you know when I think of UX the moment that we are... one of our principles is if you're a beginner you should be able to get in and make a little bit of profit very very easily without having to worry about all these things, right? And it's only like when you step full on the gas then you have to worry. But it if we can change that simple experience from like your first experience with crypto where it's like you know uh Vitalik talks about low risk DeFi, right? Like if that can be like the first thing where "oh I just made a little bit, like I've done something simple, hardly anything and I've made a little bit," then you can kind of explore and that then we can have that gradual on-ramp to kind of get to the next people. Because I I think very few people are as brave as you Colin, frankly, we're coming back.

**[55:05] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah no I mean I I just feel like I mean there are thousands of people like me who experienced this. Like thousands, ten thousands, hundred thousand people. Um and unfortunately some of them really like start to believe this is all just a scam and all these things and they just completely leave. They go to stocks or whatever and then they just do some normal stuff like in the Web 2.0 space. Um but yeah and and like which is like what you said it's really important to focus on those things. And what Vitalik has been saying about like low risk DeFi but also about like his recent post of the Layer 2s which like so I saw so many degens on X were like misinterpreting what he said and were saying like "oh L2s are bad, we should like close down, it's a failed project um yeah this is why Ethereum price is going down," all this type of nonsense. But most of the normal people read this actually and they believe it.

Um but like to put in perspective like basically what Vitalik meant I think is that like the L2s are uh getting a bit stuck you know in going to their second phase and they're a bit just too competitive to each other. Like "oh who is the cheapest gas, who is this, who is that," like the mini Ethereums. But what they should actually do is, and Vitalik kind of uses a marketing principle here, he says like um you need to focus on like your USP, you know? Like what is your unique selling proposition? And that's really important for the for the Layer 2s. They should focus each and then on their own USP and bring that to the customers, bring that to the normies and stop with like focusing on "oh uh with we are going to be the cheapest one, we are going to be the highly competitive one." Because it's not necessary because the L1 is is is keeping on scaling. Uh Vitalik also said like don't worry like with the L1 we're we're keeping the scalability high, look what we did in the past. Just focus on this. And that's actually what he meant with a long post, like to to keep it in like normal language. Um and but I think that's what the Layer 2s for example should focus on and what you said also with low risk DeFi uh that's also another major factor. But all these things make sense and I think Vitalik has been saying quite some good things lately um, but it's just people interpret it the wrong way like they usually do.

**[57:07] SPEAKER_05:** Alrighty, well I'm I'm looking at the clock. We're coming up on the hour so I think that's probably a good time to to leave it. So I shall see you all in Denver next week.

**[57:19] SPEAKER_03:** Yes, at playing with Mist on whatever... you're laughing.

**[57:28] SPEAKER_04:** Everyone out there please again check check us out uh bridge in big things coming soon. Uh there's the vault but everything else as well. Uh and also check out uh Colin's community. Colin you want to leave a last note?

**[57:41] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I mean first of all thanks for having me. Um and yeah looking forward to speak to all of you guys again in uh in in Denver. I mean it's been a long time since I see you guys so yeah really looking forward to that. Um and um yeah let's keep the discussions going further on in Denver. So uh thanks for having us.

**[58:05] SPEAKER_05:** Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.