**[00:02] SPEAKER_00:** You are live. We are live.

**[00:05] SPEAKER_01:** Hello.

**[00:06] SPEAKER_00:** Hello and welcome everybody.

**[00:08] SPEAKER_01:** Hello.

**[00:08] SPEAKER_00:** Hello. It's the week before ETHDenver, one of the major events of the Ethereum calendar, basically like the regional event for North America. So that's coming up. So as well as the usual Strato crew, we have Colin De Picker here. Is that how you pronounce your surname?

**[00:33] SPEAKER_02:** Colin?

**[00:34] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, that's correct. That's my name. Hi everyone. So yeah, Colin is my actual name. Most people know me under the name of Shiba Tarzan which is like the crypto name I use. But yeah, my actual name is Colin.

**[00:46] SPEAKER_00:** So sometimes Shiba Tarzan, sometimes Crypto Tarzan.

**[00:52] SPEAKER_01:** So the Twitter handle is Cryptotarzan. I mean that was my name that I chose when I initially joined the space and then when we did our like ENS thing with Boo, then I had to come up with an original ENS name and then it became Shiba Tarzan. I don't know how but I came up with it. So I think it's quite funny if you think about like the meme.

**[01:13] SPEAKER_00:** Guess it sticks forever like Victor's victhorwong that we've told the story of before.

**[01:19] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, probably, probably is going to be the heritage handles story. So yeah, we're here. Myself, Bob Summerwill, Head of Ecosystem. Kieren James-Lubin, CEO. Victor Wong, CPO. And Michael Tan who has got a little demo for us which we're going to start with.

**[01:48] SPEAKER_02:** Sure.

**[01:48] SPEAKER_03:** Hey everyone. So back here with another demo of Strato. For the last week and week and a half going forward we're going to have—we're currently in a trading and referral contest which I'll be showing you an update on. Let's start with that. So right now our top gainer is 0xAnonymously, 102.10%, 28.4% gain. You know, not very much. So everyone's got a chance if you would like to have a late entry in. As for the referral contest, we currently have 3 by this user in our community. And yeah, a couple referrals here. We're also going to be talking about the vault that we've added as of last Friday. Let me show you that. So this is the current position of all positions I have on mainnet: deposit 144.96 of UH Gold. And I've currently earned 1.84. But let's do a little demo on the testnet. Make my first deposit here. This account currently has USDST and SILVA and silver.

**[03:08] SPEAKER_00:** Oh no, silver.

**[03:11] SPEAKER_03:** Let's put five USDST. Confirm deposit. Still pausing. Successfully deposited. Great. So if you click this link you can see what tokens are currently in the vault. It's a market making vault that just kind of rebalances the pools and we give everybody an opportunity to participate. And some of the APY on the mainnet is currently 102.67% which is great. You can also find recent activities of swaps by the vault here. And this is all done with our automated market making bot which you can actually find a blog about on our website. And if you ever want to withdraw you just hit the withdrawal and there you have it.

**[04:02] SPEAKER_02:** Can you hear me?

**[04:04] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah.

**[04:04] SPEAKER_02:** Jumping on the bot quickly. So the APY obviously phenomenally high. As the assets go up it will probably not be as phenomenally high. It is measuring the true change in underlying asset value. So theoretically all the trades are profitable, or it doesn't do them. But it's also the—so then the risk is sort of inventory risk, right? Like it still has to hold ETH and so on. But it is up in absolute terms. And when you deposit to it it's sort of one asset at a time, mark to market. So if you got some gold token, you deposit that, you've got some ETH, you deposit that and so on. But you can't just pick and choose on the withdrawal. So you just get a sort of pro rata share of the bot's assets on withdrawal which hopefully have increased. But just so you know, if you deposit and then you're confused when you get a basket of assets back, that's the why. But yeah, APY is very high at the moment. We're excited about it.

**[05:11] SPEAKER_03:** Everyone take advantage now while you can.

**[05:18] SPEAKER_00:** Okay, well thank you. I guess we'll move on to Denver. Want to hang around Mike? You coming to Denver?

**[05:26] SPEAKER_03:** Uh yes. I'm arriving Monday night.

**[05:30] SPEAKER_00:** Excellent. So I was counting how many times I've been to ETHDenver and I think 2019 was my first. So I think this is maybe my fifth or my fourth. Anyone else?

**[05:46] SPEAKER_02:** Veterans moved down though. I went early and then we, you know we had a few years where we just sort of skipped it in our deep in our enterprise days. But I think we went and sponsored in 2017 actually and so it was still kind of had like an organic feel to it. I think it still does. I mean it's one of the unique ones where by the way—okay, so how are the tickets done? I know we've dealt with it at a corporate level but it's a free event, right? Is it like a lottery? How do you?

**[06:24] SPEAKER_00:** No, no, it's a bit weird. So you can go for free right? That's kind of a key thing. It started out very hackathon-y. So it's always been a grassroots volunteer thing, like no ticket prices for normies. But you have to join the Spork DAO for your free ticket so you have to do this onboarding. At least now I think you don't actually have to use a wallet. I think you used to in some prior years you had to. There seems to be like a Web 2.0 onboarding kind of flow gas list that gets you there. But there's quite a few screens of stuff to click through, that's for sure. Or you can just pay. But yeah, so I mean I don't know what the numbers are going to be this year. Probably around 20,000 from what I understand. That seems to be what the case was last time. How about yourself, Victor? You've been a few times.

**[07:43] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, like Kieren, I was there early and then I think I went again—my first kind of kickstart was last year. Now we're going back again.

**[07:58] SPEAKER_00:** And I know it's your first time, Colin.

**[08:01] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, for me it's going to be the first time. I started actually going last year to a ETH event so this is the first time that there is like an opportunity for me to go to Denver. So yeah, I'm excited. I heard a lot of different opinions. People say it's great. Other people say it kind of changed over the years and it's a bit more marketing related and less core Ethereum stuff. But yeah, I mean I'm going to try to experience it for myself and see what it's all about. I mean like I said, 20,000 people is still—it's the only major US event I think there is in the year, so yeah, I'm quite excited to explore it. I think it's going to be great. Also they changed the format from what I heard. I mean, maybe Bob, you can explain a bit on what changed there and if it's going to have an impact on the previous years, of course. But yeah, I'm quite excited for my first time.

**[08:54] SPEAKER_00:** Have you been before? Have you been before Mike?

**[09:00] SPEAKER_03:** Oh, sorry, yeah, I was there last year with you.

**[09:03] SPEAKER_00:** Oh, yes. And that was your first?

**[09:06] SPEAKER_03:** Yes, that was my first.

**[09:07] SPEAKER_00:** There we go. So yeah, I mean, Colin, you were at ECC last year. I think they're fairly comparable-ish sizes. I kind of think of ECC as the European one and ETHDenver's the North America one. Kind of similar. Is size different?

**[09:31] SPEAKER_01:** ECC just had like—I feel like it had a lot of side events. Because for ECC, the main event tickets were just like—they were super pricey. I think it was like €500 for a ticket. And many people or many developers just came to Cannes and then they just went to all the side events to get the free drinks, the free food like always, and then try to connect somewhere, try to get a job. I spoke to many people at ECC that were actually trying to get a job into the crypto space and they said, oh yeah, the main event is too expensive. So that's why I also think there were so many side events at ECC. For the location, Cannes is not that big compared to a city like Denver, it's super small. And there were so many side events, it was just incredible.

**[10:20] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think it's become the curse of the major events. They kind of become like a meeting point. They're like, all right, if you're there, people will be there, right? So they become like—you know, are you going to be there? And it's kind of like not so tied even to the main event. It's just like, are you physically going to be in that place on those days? Great. Where are you going to be? What are you going to be doing? I don't know. There's all these different side events. Just sign up for 100 things and see what you get and see where people are. They can be very, very fragmented. My understanding of the move to Cannes was partly to try and counter that because at least it's a physically smaller place. So the side events have to be kind of closer together so you're not so fragmented. When I went to ECC the prior year in Brussels, I felt that was very, very fragmented. That was kind of a really bad year that they had to sort of react to. And it has been a criticism of ETHDenver as well. One thing I've seen that's happening in Denver this year is like happened in DevConnect—if you kind of like the World Fair, lots of things under the same roof. There seems to be kind of a push to that kind of thing. Of saying, well, we're going to get lots of threads under that same banner. It's like, come to the main site and stay. There's enough going on that you don't have to leave. You've got these different threads happening.

**[12:18] SPEAKER_04:** I think one of the challenges that Denver has, and I kind of felt this at DevConnect this year, was that the event itself is in the middle of nowhere. So you gotta kind of make a call between—and a lot of the side events are downtown. So you gotta kind of make a call of like, do I stay downtown or do I go out there? And it kind of depends on who you're meeting really. Sometimes it just makes more sense to kind of stay downtown.

**[12:44] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Have a day here, a day in the middle, a day on the other side.

**[12:50] SPEAKER_04:** There's no middle. That's the problem. Like there's just—you just gotta go one or the other. I almost tried a Bird scooter for the first time last year trying to shuttle myself and that was terrifying. I'll never do that again. I'm way too old for that.

**[13:09] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I went on a Lime scooter thing in Austin one time and it was like, this is so dangerous.

**[13:19] SPEAKER_02:** In Austin?

**[13:20] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah.

**[13:20] SPEAKER_00:** That's just like a rattly crappy bit of road at the side. No helmet. Just like, this is bad. One of the things I saw as part of our sponsorship, which was quite interesting at ETHDenver, is they actually have a condition in there to be a sponsor of the main event that you have to promise not to have a competing event during core hours. I thought that was quite interesting. You want to be in the gang, no straight competition. Because that's the real killer thing. It used to be side events were in the evening, days before, days after, and now it's just like, no, we're just having our main conference on exactly the same day as you. Just straight competition. It's funny how the norms have changed. Victor, you talked about that with regards to Ripple and Consensus.

**[14:21] SPEAKER_04:** Oh no, it was Sibos Toronto.

**[14:23] SPEAKER_00:** Sibos.

**[14:26] SPEAKER_04:** They kind of got booted out. And then they made their parallel conference later though. Their parallel conference had—

**[14:35] SPEAKER_00:** And this was a few short years ago, but very amazing and controversial at the time that you would dare to have some competing content. Same city at the same time.

**[14:48] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, I mean, well, I think the big thing was they had these giant Ripple buses in front that ferried you to. So it was just like—also in the days when they saw blockchain as direct competitor to Swift. I think that ship has sailed. I think it definitely is a competitor.

**[15:12] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Talking about the corporate thing that you were mentioning there, Colin, there has been some criticism of ETHDenver specifically for having headline sponsors that are Ethereum killers in quotes. So it's like, how dare you have Polkadot as a primary sponsor, or BNB, or Cosmos or what have you. But they've always had a line. So it's not like we had a token where you've got Tron everywhere pasted all over the shop. That's not happening. And you're not seeing Bitboy as a main speaker as happened in Blockchain Futurist in Toronto. So there is a line which I think has been—Ethereum and friends with a number of those friends having become L2s or EVM support over time anyway. So it's kind of like a Big Ten vision. But also saying that sponsorship is key for keeping the tickets free for normal people.

**[16:46] SPEAKER_04:** Well, now that Vitalik doesn't like L2s, do we still have that? Are they out of the Ten?

**[16:54] SPEAKER_02:** There we go.

**[16:58] SPEAKER_04:** Exactly. Well, the other thing that's a little bit different, Colin, about ETHDenver—it's like you have the hardcore dev conferences, DevConnect, DevCon, and then you have what I call the commercial conferences, Consensus, Token, or these ones. But ETHDenver is kind of in the middle. I think they try to be the culture conference, but it's a little bit of both.

**[17:24] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I think also like, for example, DevConnect is almost fully organized by the Ethereum Foundation. They have a full DevConnect team for it. So that kind of makes sense. But from what I spoke to a few guys of the EF also lately and they say like they have been making their way more into Denver this year than they did before. There's going to be an Ethereum Foundation day, if I am right. There's going to be a full day for them. And they have a whole section also this time. So like you say, I think what you say, Victor, is it's a bit in the middle this time. Absolutely. On other events, like Token Dubai, Token Singapore, that's even more to the commercial side. And you won't see that much of the core principles. I think so. Yeah, I think it's a bit in the middle, but I see still a lot of chances and opportunities. It is still the biggest US event. 20,000 people coming there. It's a big audience still. So I think there's a lot of chances.

**[18:27] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah. And Kieren, in the past, I think the first time we went there were like a couple hundred people. And then next year it got huge quick.

**[18:38] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, it felt familiar. It was kind of very Denver. It was like down the street from the dispensaries. There's kombucha on tap. I assume that maybe still is there, but yeah, it had a kind of hippie agora feel to it, which maybe it still does. We're going to see.

**[19:01] SPEAKER_00:** Sports Palace was a cool building. I was wondering why it had the setup it had which is like these sorts of stories with ramps around between them. But apparently it used to be like a car warehouse place. That's why. But you just had this multi-level thing with ramps going up and round it and some of them were talks and stuff. But yeah, it was only a few hundred.

**[19:30] SPEAKER_02:** I might be getting this wrong but I remember the venue has changed again at some point. It was like a rodeo, right?

**[19:39] SPEAKER_00:** No, it's the same venue but a different building on that same complex.

**[19:43] SPEAKER_02:** I see.

**[19:44] SPEAKER_04:** Gotcha.

**[19:45] SPEAKER_02:** But I remember I was catching up with John some years ago and he was telling me just the legacy had to deal with the amount of people who wanted to come, which are pretty extreme. On the order of renting out a stadium. Which is pretty funny to me.

**[20:02] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it's certainly a pretty major undertaking there. But yeah, there has always been a large cultural and artsy kind of part to it as well. The thing I've been mainly involved with there is this Museum of Ethereum. So when you come into the venue you go through the main ticketing, there is going to be an area which is called Biddle Alley, New Biddle City, which is kind of a Blade Runnery sort of futurescape somewhere like Meow Wolf or Harry Potter Diagon Alley kind of vibes of going through this area and there are going to be various different sub areas and zones in there. One of the large ones there is Museum of Ethereum which we are sponsoring as our Golem of DevCon 0 presentation age and then ourselves DevCon 1 era. So super OGs still going. It's a mixture of physical and digital artifacts drawing largely from the early days of Ethereum. Bios and interviews and everything. Also some photos through 2014 largely from Taylor Gerring, also some of them from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in April 2014. The other thing I've been working on for that which I think is really really cool I've called the Ethereum Time Machine. What I'm providing there is an authentic experience of running original software. I have got two 2010 era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky ThinkPads. I was trying to get back to Frontier software. I can run Frontier software. However the second phase is actually mining. So the goal I had is can you run 2015 era software on contemporary hardware, CPU mine the chain back to life? So that's what I've been working on in the background for a couple of months. Basically like GPUs at first get the thing moving and then as it's moving the difficulty's coming down and you're easing off. I'm in the final phases of that. I wanted to revive Frontier. Sadly that's a very, very expensive proposition that maybe some other future sponsor would like to drop 15 or 20k of GPU on. But I have revived Homestead. So what you'll have there is running Mist, running Mist at Homestead, CPU mining transactions back and forth, sitting there getting the real experience of 10 year old software. Original chain, original protocol. That was fun.

**[24:10] SPEAKER_04:** Optional in the real experience or like—is pulling out your hair in frustration optional or required experience? Because I remember a lot of that myself.

**[24:22] SPEAKER_00:** I'm just hoping they don't crash too often.

**[24:24] SPEAKER_04:** I remember Mist crashing a lot when we were playing around with it.

**[24:31] SPEAKER_00:** So yes, there will be reboot instructions on hand. There's also—

**[24:39] SPEAKER_04:** Are you going to be doing tech support on hand too?

**[24:43] SPEAKER_00:** I hope not. I hope to have left sufficient instructions that competent people can keep it going. Otherwise there might be some downtime. But yeah, so there's that. There's also a big chunk which Jessica Angel, the creative director, has taken the lead on to do with some orbs that you can put your hands on and reach consensus between each other and light up different phases. And then there is also a centerpiece which is still in motion so I won't talk about. But the hope is that a good chunk of those 20,000 people are going to walk in and experience a bit of Ethereum history really, touching on those early days and people that they may have got no clue were around, and have a little bit of a flavor of what that year was like and get your hands on.

**[25:49] SPEAKER_04:** And you're speaking on the main stage about it too, right?

**[25:51] SPEAKER_00:** I am talking about early days of Ethereum as well. There's a stage that's like storytelling or culture. I can't remember quite what that was called. It's called like New France Stage I think. I'll be giving a little talk there. Likely what I'll do is play some ancient videos for people's amusement. There's really fun stuff from the very early days that a lot of people won't have seen. Particularly that Toronto Bitcoin Expo. That was in April 2014 and it was like the second time probably that most of the people on the team had met each other. Some had met in Miami in January and then some again met in April. But at that point Ethereum was a company. So Ethereum were the headline sponsors for that event and they had a booth and gave away hundreds or thousands of T-shirts and flyers. So it was the Ethereum company for the one and only time that you ever had that. But with a new EF being engaged again, they're not being the company but they are starting to have a presence at events again which I think is a very positive thing to see. That engagement—they're obviously never going to have an EF stand up token or what have you but having a presence at ETHDenver and ECC absolutely makes sense. Hopefully they'll have a good presence.

**[27:46] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, no, I mean we're looking forward to see you speak Bob, but I remember I think you were kind of planning the same, or also speaking about Ethereum early days at DevConnect, but then there was issues with the Wi-Fi or something or the internet. I remember DevConnect—so many people just left the main venue again because they couldn't do anything. The internet was super bad and you can say okay it's like Argentina but I mean come on, they should have at least decent internet. Hopefully.

**[28:19] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, yeah, it will not be a problem in Denver I can assure you that. They've been there a good chunk of time and they know what they're doing. But yeah, the Wi-Fi in Argentina was dreadful.

**[28:36] SPEAKER_04:** We went to offsite coffee shops for Wi-Fi so I don't think it was a general Argentina problem. It was definitely a problem.

**[28:45] SPEAKER_00:** I think it was just a capacity problem because there were so many people there. The problem specifically at the Ethereum Cypherpunk Congress was they only got in the venue like two or three hours before the event. It was an absolute rush job.

**[29:02] SPEAKER_01:** They did everything with the volunteers. They had so many volunteers because most of the core organization were just traveling. It was at the beginning of DevConnect so most of the people were just arriving and they said okay we're going to let it be run by volunteers to set up all. So yeah, maybe there was an issue but it was great. You just unfortunately couldn't do your talk there. But hopefully to see in Denver would be amazing.

**[29:32] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean that talk I will record, I will re-record with them at some point. That still hasn't happened. But yeah, it was just a bit of a mess on the day but Denver's fine. They've been planning it forever. So yeah, what's happening with Book of Ethereum? How's things in your world?

**[29:57] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean we're trying to manage the winter period of crypto as we speak. It's crazy times actually. But we're doing our best. We're managing things, just focusing on building the community. Really making time to invest in community building. I think it's super important. I see these months as a big chance to improve UX, improve onboarding strategies because I feel like that's something that we still miss if I speak in general crypto, Ethereum specifically also. They always speak about the millions of people we're still missing to onboard but then you also need to do something about it. I see these times are pretty good to do it. There's slow volume days. Markets are terrible at the moment. So it is what it is, we need to look at other things to do now. But yeah we're really active still. It's going to be our first time in Denver now and we will do other events this year also. I think we'll be at ECC also this year and we're going to DevCon probably also in Bangkok. Really looking forward to that one as well. But yeah for the rest we're just building the community, focusing on the onboarding and UX. We will see when the markets pick up again but for now it's just a bit low volume. They call it the winter days so we'll see. It's my first time experiencing this so we'll see how it goes. But yeah I feel like the sentiment all over is a bit lower. People are kind of—I wouldn't say depressed but most of the investors are at least a bit down low sentiment because of these times.

**[31:47] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, do you—I mean I think we all feel that a little bit. Do we prefer though? The euphoria times have some real downsides too. It's kind of hard to be—there's so much noise in the euphoria times. I kind of like the quiet times. Although it's been a weird past cycle if you all believe in that. There's not really been much too much of an alt run up which we had in the previous one and so I think the euphoria never set in to the same way. It's sort of been still value accrual to staple assets mostly and a few breakouts but it's not like it was.

**[32:34] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah no, I don't really believe in the four year cycle or whatever it's called. I came in even after the supposedly perfect four year cycle but I don't really know—you would ask those people, they can never really explain on what it's based. Even the best traders in the world they cannot really explain how the financial markets work or what is going to be the future. They all just guess a bit on their feeling and they put things out of context to try to find an explanation for things. But yeah, like for example right now if we look at Ethereum the asset over the past two years, the way it's been moving there is no real clarification for it—why it's going to a new all time high and then again completely down. Feels like there is some unexpected market manipulation going on that we don't have under control in some way. You could say in April crash last year, you could say okay, people like Tom Lee and others brought back some hype with their staking announcements and all these things and the treasury companies and it was a big thing in the summer. And then you saw ETH doing very well. With the upgrade in the end of November, Ethereum did massively well and you would think everything looked perfectly fundamentally for January and Q1 coming. Even Tom Lee did some crazy predictions on the price of Ethereum. But yeah, it's not what it looks like. It's not because fundamentally everything is looking fine that the price is going to that target. In my opinion it's just unpredictable. I cannot predict it. Maybe you guys can. I cannot predict it. It's kind of hard and it just is what it is. In my opinion, just from the perspective that we have to undergo it and see what's going on and just focus on the building. Because I've said this also many times to our community: if you're not here for the building, the movement, the culture, then you will not last. If you're just purely here based on the temporary price of the assets, then you're never going to be here for many years, I think. Seems also quite a difficult space for that. So yeah, it's just my opinion.

**[34:56] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, it's funny because my current thought about what's going on is that if you look at previous winters—we've been through quite a few but they've been sort of more internal focused. The thing you could point to that kind of triggered them is something happening in the crypto sphere itself, like ICOs going bust or NFTs or meme coins or whatever. And now it's really—a lot of things in the world are happening simultaneously and crypto is just one of those things, right? Metal prices have changed, equity prices have changed, currency prices have changed. My current thing is that it is a little bit different this time because I think what's happening is crypto is becoming part of the macro infrastructure. And I think we'll look back and kind of think okay, this is the time that crypto did just become part of the regular financial system.

**[36:05] SPEAKER_00:** So moving more away from speculation and more to utility?

**[36:10] SPEAKER_04:** Well, I mean I don't know if it's more speculation or utility. You could call the stock markets affected by a lot of speculation too. But I think it's moving more toward a more stable view of people's view on what they are. And the use of it is becoming more stable and widespread. The number of holders—the choices that people have are not like oh, do I move my crypto bags from one crypto to another? It's clear that people are considering okay, should I move it into metals like we saw that happening or should I move it into other assets that are completely outside the crypto sphere.

**[36:58] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, it's a funny thing and tokenization makes that a lot easier. We saw Eric Voorhees buy some huge quantity of PAXG and it hit the internet in a big way. And I think on balance this is a good thing. Although it makes you a little bit—it's not the old days. I've said before, it's unfortunate that ETH, Bitcoin, etc. seem to trade like a high beta tech stock. They're risk-on assets still. And they're not behaving like metals which are somewhat anticorrelated with what the stock market does. But the positive side is RWAs can help achieve a certain type of practical day-to-day sovereignty where you have a basket of assets that are both resilient from a price change perspective. The RWAs may be a little bit less purely cypherpunk. But again we've seen strange things also—stables in circulation have doubled year over year a little bit more and floating crypto prices went down. I suppose there's no in principle reason those things have to go together. Eventually usage goes up, you'll see crazy crypto prices go up in kind of a commodity way. But interesting times.

**[38:37] SPEAKER_04:** I think on that note, the other thing—typically when we've had these other winters, total volumes have gone down and that's not necessarily true now. One way to think about it that I've been thinking of is that we thought crypto was the hedge against the mainstream markets. But I think the actual mechanism is DeFi. People are using DeFi to hedge in all kinds of different places and because it's global and 24/7 it allows you to do that way more efficiently. It's the rails themselves that are the hedge.

**[39:13] SPEAKER_02:** There's a lot of leverage in the system now too.

**[39:15] SPEAKER_04:** Still people believe that the big sell-offs have been liquidation driven. So we saw the beginning in the FTX cycle. We saw the beginning on 10/10 and things are still shaking out. I've seen tweets today about BlockFills suspending withdrawals. Supposedly a bunch of big firms are just trying to manage maybe effective insolvency from leverage. There's just more leverage than before. The Hyperliquids and the like kind of created 20x effective leverage out of thin air. There's a good use for these products but it just means the swings are going to be bigger, the blow-ups and so on. Interesting, interesting times all around.

**[40:09] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. What I also feel is that like what Victor has been saying, I think DeFi is going to be making a major move. It has to be also because the stables have doubled and I think that's because people take less risks and especially the builders, they're taking less risk. They're exploring ways how can DeFi generate this passive income over time without needing to take unnecessary risk. If you look into it, it's a big opportunity. If they can explore it more and we can actually do what people like Vitalik and Gavin Wood have been saying from the very beginning—whether you're going to build on Ethereum and all the places to build applications, we haven't seen all the possibilities of Ethereum yet. The past cycles we have seen a lot of speculative things and we had the NFT hype and everything. But the real upcoming trend of DeFi applications that are real businesses built by individuals also—you don't need a big corporation anymore to start your own business on Ethereum. That's going to be a major one also. What I see recently is that in the past it was very difficult for people that were not software engineers to build something on Ethereum. But what you see now—and the EF is also quite bullish on all these things that are the agents, especially with the Clawbot stuff that's going around now, the Moldbook. Even we as a community, we have done our own ERC-7007 agent who is now participating in hackathons for us, who is building things for us. We are exploring with it as well. It is the future and I think part of bringing people in, decentralized, self-sovereignty, self-custody—all super important. Privacy and all these things. We have been building the tech, we have been doing absolutely amazing on the builder side. But please keep it to that. For the customers, for the public, it's not relevant if you're not a computer science guy or someone who built it. It's not relevant for you to read these things or to first start with. Because then you're going to be completely lost and you won't understand. Keep this in the background but bring it over to your customers as hey, this is super safe to use, these are all the advantages. But explain it to them in a normie way that they all can understand. I think if we can really push forward these type of methods then we're going to see big progress over the next years.

**[42:33] SPEAKER_04:** I totally agree with that because without the noise—I said in the article, I didn't know if this was just because I'm Canadian and I have a fondness for winter generally—but there is a quiet building that happens. Ethereum itself would have never launched at the time it did unless it was for the winter we had there. It also forces you to focus on what is really meaningful for the future. That's one—no one likes the pain of bad prices but it does allow you to refocus your efforts on a smaller number of super important things.

**[43:16] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think it's good as long as you don't die.

**[43:20] SPEAKER_04:** As long as you don't get completely wrecked. Yeah, basically.

**[43:24] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. That's what I mean. It's kind of hard to build products but fully be dependent on the price of your assets. You need to find solutions for that. With stablecoins, building up yields, farming yield, all these things, generating your fees and everything—there's so many possibilities you can explore onchain. If you look onchain, there has never been a good moment since just before Trump got elected I think was the last time we saw some big onchain volume. Since then all those teams, they need to look at other opportunities. That was what I've been seeing lately. The actual projects that are building—the assets of them will recover in due time. If they can adapt to this new way of moving, those will be the ones that are going to be successful. If you cannot adapt and you just stay in the old format of like, oh, we're just going to do some hype and just purely based off no value, no fundamentals behind it, then I think it's just going to die like Bob says. But if you actually really can adapt to the future and use all of these things and push forward, I think better times are ahead 100%. You just got to continue. The real projects that are nonstop continuing to build, those will be the ones that will make it eventually.

**[44:54] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah. I think also you got to take a broader view. If my thesis that crypto is now part of the mainstream is correct, then you're not just comparing to other crypto projects, you're comparing to legacy banking systems that were basically built in the 70s and haven't been updated. If you think where are the next booms coming from, it's—are people going to trust their money on those systems or are they going to move to global decentralized 24/7 systems? For all of us the answer is obvious, but I think the world is just starting to catch up to it.

**[45:32] SPEAKER_01:** Exactly. I think it's a really important moment now because a lot of the banks are starting to really get into crypto now. They want to bring crypto to their platform so they can handle their customers directly because there's coming more and more interest. People want to buy Ethereum, people want to buy Bitcoin, people want to buy Solana or whatever and the banks need to provide for it, especially in Europe. They are trying to push forward with new laws to be voted so that the banks are allowed to handle crypto and stuff. But I see already kind of issues with it and it will be purely people that will own the asset and they will see it purely as an investment. Unfortunately what I'm seeing is that people, if they go with the bank way, they will never be able to explore their full potential. They won't even be able to have their own ownership of the wallet. The bank will host it again like they always do. They're just going to see it as a new way of stock investment type of thing. They're not really knowing what's going on. That's why I think as a project now in the onchain space in DeFi, you really have to focus on onboarding and UX because there is a lot of potential now to get people onchain. I wouldn't say your side but to get them into DeFi so they don't choose the banks because otherwise we're going to get into a big trouble where it's going to be a fight whether the banks can onboard more people or whether we can onboard more people. That's something to look into. Especially it's what I'm trying to do for my generation—all the people that are currently at uni studying or just young age, they have the potential to make the difference. That's really important because otherwise all these things we're doing, the building is just not going to matter. We have a big chance. We have all the infrastructure, we have the technology. We just have to focus on onboarding and UX. That's the most important.

**[47:29] SPEAKER_00:** And I think agents are maybe our largest customer base moving forward.

**[47:33] SPEAKER_02:** That's a really good point because it will be just a while before legacy financial can deal with agents. They'll figure it out eventually, but there's a lot of problems. You need a meatspace person to deal with when you've got a bank account that you just don't have to in the crypto world. Adding on to Colin's point, one thing I like to say is I look at Uber as a model in the sense that they're operating a little gray, right? They kind of went and let people give car rides. The taxi union doesn't like it and so on. And consumers picked it. At least Uber mostly won in the United States. They get taxed and so on. In Europe sometimes it's just routing for the local taxis and so on. But it's a model. People picked it because it was awesome.

**[48:34] SPEAKER_00:** Right?

**[48:34] SPEAKER_02:** Crypto is awesome, but it's awesome unevenly. There's just a lot of sharp edges that you don't know how to deal with as a newbie. It's a little bit unfriendly to people who are not super expert. A lot of jargon, it feels like an insidery culture. We've got to be more normie friendly in the approach. Build the tech, talk about the tech and so on. To Colin's point, it is absolutely a fight for the same deposits, if you will. Crypto is more capable than what the legacy financial world has in ways we also just haven't even imagined yet. But it just needs enough liquidity and whatnot to see all of that happen. I think by the way, big guiding principle for the things we build is to try to keep it true to cypherpunk values to the maximal possible extent, but make it as easy as possible to onboard the regular human being.

**[49:50] SPEAKER_04:** One thing, Colin, you talk about UX which I think people think of as just like how things look or how you interact with it. Bob, you kind of coined that term that I like, agentic experience. I think part of it is how should the system behave in a variety of ways. One aspect that crypto hasn't done well and we are really focused on is how do you create sensible defaults where if you come into the system, you're highly unlikely to get wrecked. Other systems tend to push you to be super highly levered. When markets hit these winters, you just get destroyed and you never want to come back. Part of the overall experience is what does safety look like? I don't think it's about cybersecurity as much as it is about sensible defaults that you should keep in order. Banks impose that on you. There should be some user choice here. You got to give users options at least at the starting point and then move them toward more leverage or riskier behaviors when they understand the system, which is kind of hard to do right now.

**[51:11] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, exactly. I just want to add that what I mean with UX is also I look back at my own story. I joined when I was 16, quite young. In the first year, all the money that I brought into crypto, I lost it all. That was my first year of experience in crypto and what many of my friends also experienced, people where I came in touch with first mostly on these random Telegram groups. This is how I entered the crypto space basically. But then back then I was so young and I was just thinking it's all normal and this is the way you need to get yourself into it. But now I'm looking at a more business perspective and seeing hey, this is absolutely not normal. People getting in are just getting out again because they don't feel the safety that they should feel. They don't get the support they should get, they don't get the right things to use—the right tools, the right onboarding guidelines and everything. That's what I mean with UX, with onboarding. All the companies building something on crypto should really make a priority of it that they can bring the right people in and that they can educate them first before even letting them just explore the onchain world. Because otherwise like Victor said, you're going to get wrecked, you're going to lose money. People will just go out and they will speak bad about the space. Everyone will be speaking bad about crypto just because they got wrecked on whether it's a random coin, they got scammed because they clicked the wrong links or their wallet got drained, or they sent money to the wrong wallets. All these type of cases could be so easily prevented just if we educate everyone that is coming into it. I know it's time consuming maybe and it takes time to do this. But it's super important if you want to be successful in the long term. That's just something that I really feel from my own experience that we should focus on more. Like Kieren said, and this is the last thing I want to add—yes, and this is also what Vitalik has been saying in his recent posts. The cypherpunk culture is super important. Decentralization, self-sovereignty, self-custody, all super important. Privacy and all these things. We have been building the tech, we have been doing absolutely amazing on the builder side. But please keep it to that. For the customers, for the public, it's not relevant if you're not a computer science guy or someone who built it. It's not relevant for you to read these things or to first start with. Because then you're going to be completely lost and you won't understand. Keep this in the background but bring it over to your customers as hey, this is super safe to use, these are all the advantages. But explain it to them like Kieren says in a normie way that they all can understand. I think if we can really push forward these type of methods then we're going to see big progress over the next years.

**[54:08] SPEAKER_04:** Colin, your story is bang on. You're super brave for losing everything and then coming back and recommitting. When I think of UX, the moment—one of our principles is if you're a beginner, you should be able to get in and make a little bit of profit very, very easily without having to worry about all these things. It's only when you step full on the gas then you have to worry about things. But if we can change that simple experience from your first experience with crypto where Vitalik talks about low risk default—if that can be the first thing where oh, I've just made a little bit, I've done something simple, hardly anything and I've made a little bit—then you can kind of explore. Then we can have that gradual on-ramp to get to the next people. Very few people are as brave as you, Colin, for coming back.

**[55:07] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean I just feel like there are thousands of people like me who experienced this. Thousands, ten thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. Unfortunately some of them really start to believe this is all just a scam and they just completely leave, they go to stocks or whatever and then they just do normal stuff in the Web2 space. It's really important to focus on those things. What Vitalik has been saying about low risk DeFi but also about his recent post of the Layer 2s—I saw so many degens on X who were misinterpreting what he said and saying oh, L2s are bad, we should close down, it's a failed project. This is why Ethereum price is going down, all this type of nonsense. But most of the normal people read this actually and they believe it. To put in perspective, basically what Vitalik meant I think is that the L2s are getting a bit stuck in going to their second phase and they're a bit just too competitive to each other. Oh, who is the cheapest gas? Who is this? Who is that? Like the mini Ethereums. But what they should actually do—and Vitalik kind of uses a marketing principle here—he says you need to focus on your USP, your unique selling proposition. That's really important for the Layer 2s. They should focus each on their own USP and bring that to the customers, bring that to the normies and stop focusing on oh, we are going to be the cheapest one, we are going to be the highly competitive one because it's not necessary because the L1 is keeping on scaling. Vitalik also said don't worry, with the L1 we're keeping the scalability high. Look what we did in the past, just focus on this. That's actually what he meant in a long post, to keep it in normal language. But I think that's what the Layer 2s should focus on. What you said also with low risk DeFi, that's another major factor. All these things make sense and I think Vitalik has been saying quite some good things lately. It's just people interpret it the wrong way like they usually do.

**[57:12] SPEAKER_00:** All righty, well I'm looking at the clock, we're coming up on the hour, so I think that's probably a good time to leave it. I shall see you all in Denver next week.

**[57:21] SPEAKER_04:** Yes. Playing with Mist on wetware.

**[57:28] SPEAKER_02:** Everyone out there, please again, check us out. Bridge in. Big things coming soon. There's the vault, but everything else as well. Also check out Colin's community. Colin, you want to leave a last note?

**[57:42] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. First of all, thanks for having me. Looking forward to speak to all you guys again in Denver. It's been a long time since I see you guys, so really looking forward to that. Let's keep the discussions going further on in Denver. Thanks for having us.

**[57:59] SPEAKER_02:** Thank you. Bye.

**[58:00] SPEAKER_01:** Bye.