**[00:02] SPEAKER_05:** You are live. We are live. Hello hello and welcome everybody. Hello hello. It's the week before ETHDenver, one of the major events of the Ethereum calendar. Basically like the regional event for North America. So that's coming up. So as well as the usual Stratos crew, we have Colin the Picker here. Is that how you pronounce your surname?

**[00:33] SPEAKER_00:** Colin, yeah yeah that's correct. That's my name. Hi everyone. So yeah, I'm Colin. That's my actual name. Most people know me under the name of Shiba Tarzan, which is the crypto name I use. But yeah, my actual name is Colin. So sometimes Shiba Tarzan, sometimes Crypto Tarzan. Yeah, the Twitter handle is Crypto Tarzan. I mean that was the name I chose when I initially joined the space. Then when we did our ENS thing with Boo, I had to come up with an original ENS name and it became Shiba Tarzan. I don't know how I came up with it, but I think it's quite funny if you think about the meme. I guess it sticks forever. Like Victor's Victorful Wong that we've told the story of before. Yeah, probably is going to be the heritage handles story.

**[01:11] SPEAKER_05:** So yeah, we're here myself Bob Summerwill, Head of Ecosystem, Kieren James-Lubin CEO, Victor Wong CPO, and Michael Tan who has got a little demo for us.

**[01:46] SPEAKER_01:** Sure. Hey everyone, so back here with another Strato demo. For the last week and a half going forward, we're currently in a trading and referral contest which I'll be showing you an update on. Let's start with that. So right now our top gainer is anonymously 102 10d28f with a four percent gain. Not very much, so everyone's got a chance if you'd like to have a late entry in. As for the referral contest, we currently have three by this user in our community and a couple of referrals here. We're also going to be talking about the vault that we've added as of last Friday. Let me show you that. So this is the current position of all positions I have on mainnet. Deposit 144.96 of gold and I've currently earned $1.84. But let's do a little demo on the testnet. Make my first deposit here. This account currently has USDT and Solana. Oh no, silver. Let's put five USDT. Firm deposit still processing. Successfully deposited. So if you click this link, you can see what tokens are currently in the vault. It's a market-making vault that just kind of rebalances the pools and we give everybody an opportunity to participate in some of the APY. On mainnet it's currently 102.67 which is great. You can also find recent activity, the swaps by the vault here. This is all done with our automated market-making bot which you can actually find a blog about on our website. And if you ever want to withdraw, you just hit the withdrawal button and there you have it.

**[03:59] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, jumping on the bot quickly, the APY is obviously phenomenally high. As the assets go up, it will probably not be as phenomenally high. It is measuring the true change in underlying asset value, so theoretically all the trades are profitable or it doesn't do them. But the risk is sort of inventory risk, right? It still has to hold ETH and so on, but it is up in absolute terms. When you deposit to it, it's sort of one asset at a time mark the market. So if you've got some gold tokenized, you deposit that. You've got some ETH, you deposit that, and so on. But you can't just pick and choose on the withdrawal. You just get a sort of pro rata share of the bot's assets on withdrawal which hopefully have increased. Just so you know, if you deposit and then you're confused when you get a basket of assets back, that's the why. But yeah, APY is very high at the moment. We're excited about it, everyone take advantage now where you can.

**[05:19] SPEAKER_05:** Okay, well thank you. I guess we'll move on to Denver. Do you want to hang around Mike? Are you coming to Denver? Yes, I'm arriving Monday night. Excellent. So I was trying to count how many times I've been to ETHDenver and I think 2009 was my first, so I think this is maybe my third or fourth. Anyone else veterans of Denver? I went early and then we sort of skipped it in our enterprise days, but I think we sponsored in 2017 actually. So it still had an organic feel to it. I think it still does. It's one of the unique ones where, by the way, how are the tickets done? I know we've dealt with it at a corporate level. It's a free event, right? But how do you get tickets?

**[06:20] SPEAKER_05:** No, it's a bit weird. You can go for free. That's kind of a key thing. It started out very hackathon-y, so it's always been grassroots volunteers with no ticket prices for normies. But you have to join the Sport DAO for your free ticket. So you have to do this onboarding. At least now I think you don't actually have to use a wallet. I think you used to in some prior years. There seems to be a web 2.0 onboarding kind of flow gasless that gets you there. But there are quite a few screens of stuff to click through. Or you can just pay. Yes, I know the numbers are going to be around 20,000 from what I understand. That seems to be what the case was last time. How about yourself Victor, you've been a few times?

**[07:41] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, like Kieren I was there early and then I think my first kickstart was last year. Now we're going back again. And I know it's your first time Colin.

**[07:58] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, for me it's going to be the first time. I started going to ETH events last year. This is the first opportunity for me to go to Denver. I'm excited. I've heard a lot of different opinions. People say it's great, others say it's changed over the years and it's a bit more marketing-related and less core Ethereum stuff. But I'm going to experience it for myself and see what it's all about. 20,000 people is still the only major US event in the year. So I'm quite excited to explore it. I think it's going to be great. They changed the format from what I heard. Maybe Bob you can explain a bit on what changed and if it's going to have an impact on previous years. But I'm quite excited for my first time.

**[08:54] SPEAKER_01:** Have you been before Mike? Oh sorry, yeah I was there last year with you. Yes, that was your first. Yes, that was my first. So Colin, you were at ECC last year. I think they're fairly comparable sizes. XCC is the European one and ETHDenver is the North America one. Kind of similar sizes. You see just that like I feel like it had a lot of side events. For ECC, the main event tickets were super pricey. I think it was like 500 euros for tickets. Many developers just came to get to Ken and went to all the side events for free drinks, free food, and tried to connect somewhere, get a job. I spoke to many people at ECC who were trying to get a job in the crypto space. They said the main event was too expensive. That's why there were so many side events at ECC. The location Ken is not that big compared to Denver. Bob you explored it. Compared to Denver, it's super small. There were so many side events, it was just incredible.

**[10:17] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I think it's become the curse of major events. They become a meeting point. People will be there, so they become, are you going to be there? It's not so tied to the main event. It's just, are you physically going to be in that place on those days? Yes, great. Where are you going to be? What are you going to be doing? Sign up for a hundred things and see what you get, see where people are. It can be very fragmented. My understanding of the move to Ken was partly to counter that because it's a physically smaller place so side events have to be closer together. You're not so fragmented. When I went to ECC the prior year in Brussels, it felt very fragmented. That was a bad year they had to react to. It's been a criticism of ETHDenver as well. One thing I've seen happening in Denver this year is like in Devconnect. Lots of things under the same roof. A push to get lots of threads under the same banner. Come to the main site and stay. There's enough going on that you don't have to leave. Different threads happening.

**[12:16] SPEAKER_03:** Well, I think one challenge ETHDenver has is the event itself is in the middle of nowhere. A lot of side events are downtown. So you have to make a call between staying downtown or going out there. It depends on who you're meeting. Sometimes it makes more sense to stay downtown. A day here, a day in the middle, a day on the other side. There's no middle, that's the problem. You just have to go one or the other. I tried a bird scooter for the first time last year trying to shuttle myself. That was terrifying. I'll never do that again.

**[13:09] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I went on a Lime scooter in Austin one time. It was so dangerous.

**[13:16] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, in Austin. Wow. Rattly crappy bit of road at the side, no helmet.

**[13:26] SPEAKER_05:** So bad. One thing I saw as part of our sponsorship at ETHDenver is they have a condition to be a sponsor of the main event. You have to promise not to have a competing event during core hours. That's quite interesting. No straight competition. Side events used to be in the evening or days before, days after. Now it's just having a main conference on exactly the same day as you, straight competition. It's funny how the norms have changed. Victor, you talked about that with Ripple and Consensus.

**[14:21] SPEAKER_03:** Oh no, it was Cybo's Toronto. Cybo's got booted out and made their parallel conference later. Their parallel conference had...

**[14:35] SPEAKER_05:** A few short years ago. Amazing and controversial at the time. Dare to have competing content in the same city at the same time. They had giant Ripple buses in front that buried you. In the days when they saw blockchain as a direct competitor to Swift, that chip is zeroed now. Blockchain is definitely a competitor.

**[15:12] SPEAKER_05:** Talking about the corporate thing Colin mentioned. Criticism of ETHDenver for having headline sponsors that are Ethereum killers in quotes. How dare you have Polkadot as a primary sponsor or BNB or Cosmos. They've always had this line. It's not like having Tron everywhere with Justin Sun's face pasted all over. You're not seeing Bitboy as a main speaker. There is a line. Ethereum ethereum and friends with a number of those friends becoming L2s or EVM support over time. Big tent vision but sponsorship is key for keeping the tickets free for normies.

**[16:45] SPEAKER_03:** Now that Vitalik doesn't like L2s, do we still have that? ETHDenver is kind of in the middle. It tries to be the culture conference but it's a bit of both.

**[17:23] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, Devconnect is fully organized by the Ethereum Foundation. They have a full Devconnect team. ETHDenver is making their way more into Denver than before. There's going to be an Ethereum Foundation day, a full day for them. They have a whole section this time. ETHDenver is a bit in the middle but still the biggest US event with 20,000 people. There are a lot of chances and opportunities.

**[18:26] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, in the past the first time we went there were a couple hundred people. Next year it got huge quick.

**[18:41] SPEAKER_04:** Right. It was very Denver-like. Down the street from dispensaries with kombucha on top. It had a hippie agora feel which maybe it still does.

**[19:00] SPEAKER_05:** The Sports Palace was a cool building. Apparently it used to be a car warehouse place. Multi-level with ramps going up and around. Some ramps were just for talks. There were only a few hundred people.

**[19:32] SPEAKER_04:** I think the venue has changed again. At some point it was a rodeo. No, it's the same venue but a different building on the same complex.

**[19:39] SPEAKER_05:** Gotcha. Catching up with John some years ago, he told me the legs he had to go to deal with the amount of people wanting to come are pretty extreme. Renting out a stadium is pretty funny. It's a major undertaking.

**[20:04] SPEAKER_05:** There has always been a large cultural and artsy part to ETHDenver. Mainly involved with that is the Museum of Ethereum. When you come into the venue, you go through the main ticketing area. There's going to be an area called Biddle Alley, New Biddle City. A Blade Runner-y futurescape like Meow Wolf or Diagon Alley vibes. Various sub areas and zones. One large one is the Museum of Ethereum which we are sponsoring. Golem of Devcon Zero presentation age and ourselves Devcon One era. Super OGs still going. A mixture of physical and digital artifacts drawing largely from the early days of Ethereum. Bios, interviews, photos from 2014 largely from Taylor Gerring. Some from the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in April 2014. I've been working on the Ethereum Time Machine. Authentic experience of running original software. Two 2010 era white plastic MacBooks and two chunky ThinkPads. Trying to get back to Frontier software. Frontier software can run, however the second phase is mining. The goal is to run 2015 era software on contemporary hardware, CPU mine the chain back to life. Working on that in the background for a couple of months. GPUs at first get the thing moving, then as it's moving the difficulty comes down. Easing off, reviving Homestead. Running Mist at Homestead, CPU mining transactions back and forth. Real experience of 10-year-old software, original chain, original protocol.

**[24:06] SPEAKER_03:** Fun optional. Frustration optional. Mist crashed a lot when we were playing around with it.

**[24:30] SPEAKER_05:** Yes, there will be reboot instructions on hand. Jessica Angel, the creative director, has taken the lead on some orbs that you can put your hands on and reach consensus between each other. Light up different phases. There is also a centerpiece still in motion. The hope is that a good chunk of those 20,000 people walk in and experience a bit of Ethereum history. Touching on the early days and people they may have no clue were around. Have a bit of flavor of what that year was like.

**[25:47] SPEAKER_03:** You're speaking on the main stage about it too. Talking about early days of Ethereum.

**[25:54] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I'll be giving a little talk on the New France Stage. Play some ancient videos for people's amusement. Really fun stuff from the very early days that a lot of people won't have seen. Particularly the Toronto Bitcoin Expo in April 2014. Second time most of the team had met each other. Some met in Miami in January, some again in April. At that point Ethereum was a company. Ethereum were the headline sponsors for that event. They had a booth, gave away hundreds or thousands of t-shirts and flyers. Ethereum company for the one and only time ever. New EF being engaged again, starting to have a presence at events again. Very positive thing to see. EF stands at ETHDenver and ECC make sense. Hopefully they'll have a good presence.

**[27:48] SPEAKER_00:** Looking forward to hearing you speak Bob. I remember you were planning to speak about Ethereum early days at Devconnect but there were issues with the Wi-Fi or internet. So many people left the main venue because they couldn't do anything. The internet was super bad.

**[28:19] SPEAKER_05:** Wi-Fi will not be a problem in Denver. They've been there a while, they know what they're doing.

**[28:31] SPEAKER_03:** Wi-Fi in Argentina was dreadful. We went to off-site coffee shops for Wi-Fi. Definitely not a general Argentina problem, just a capacity issue.

**[28:46] SPEAKER_05:** The problem at the Ethereum Cypherpunk Congress was they only got the venue two or three hours before the event. Absolute rush job. Volunteers did everything.

**[29:04] SPEAKER_00:** They had so many volunteers because most of the core organization of Secure Privacy were traveling. It was at the beginning of Devconnect so most people were arriving. They let volunteers run it, set up all so maybe there was an issue but it was great. Unfortunate you couldn't do your talk but hopefully in Denver it will be amazing.

**[29:31] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, I will re-record that talk with them at some point. Denver's fine, they've been planning forever. What's happening with Book of Ethereum? How are things in your world?

**[29:54] SPEAKER_00:** We're trying to manage the winter period of crypto. Crazy times actually. Doing our best, focusing on building the community. Making time to invest in community building is super important. These months are a big chance to improve UX, improve onboarding strategies. Still missing onboarding in crypto and Ethereum specifically. Always speak about the millions of people missing out on board but need to do something about it. These times are good to do it. Slow volume days, markets are terrible. Need to look at other things to do now. Really active still. First time in Denver now. Will do other events this year: ECC, Defcon Mumbai. Building community, focusing on onboarding and UX. See when markets pick up again. Low volume, winter days. First time experiencing this. Sentiment is lower, investors are down and low sentiment. We all feel that a little bit.

**[31:50] SPEAKER_04:** Eu