**[00:05] SPEAKER_00:** So yeah, I guess, okay, welcome to Early Days of Ethereum. Thank you. I'm here today with, uh, with Karter for a rather different kind of topic and episode than normal, because the Late Days of Ethereum is what it's called. The Late Days, right? The Late Days. Because yeah, you know, normally I'm talking about, you know, sort of social history of OGs and, you know, their memories at the time, learning. Um, but you have had a rather different focus, uh, on on-chain history.

**[00:53] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, no, thanks for having me on the show. You know, I—I've been, as you know, a uh, a very big fan of your work. And um, yeah, I did, and not as you said, uh, Early Days of Ethereum person. But you know, I think that this project that I think we'll talk about is, you know, in ways, a celebratory venture of the efforts of the folks who are worthy of this, this actual channel that you have in this, this uh, Early Days of Ethereum effort.

**[01:23] SPEAKER_00:** So um, yeah, something. So I mean, how how did you yourself sort of get involved with

**[01:31] SPEAKER_01:** Ethereum and that on-chain thesis? So my Ethereum story, honestly, it started through investing, uh, with many others. It's, uh, it came on during the boom of, you know, I kind of ignored all of the early edges and articles I read towards the, uh, exciting technology of blockchain and where it could go. And kind of, you know, everything was focused in 2010 to 2013 about how it's either, you're either in it, which was the view, or it's absurd. And it's, uh, you know, for, uh, you know, it's, it's, uh, it's speculative and everyone's going to lose their money and they're gambling and whatnot. So I kind of, like, you know, jumped on that bandwagon, was interested but on the side, uh, and never really dipped in. And you know, I was even, a 2012 mining Bitcoin in his, uh, aunt's closet and he was telling me about it. It was very adamant, I respected the guy, I have a good friend, I expected, respected him a lot. And so I guess I look back at that as like, what were you doing? Why didn't you just listen? But um, he was telling me, hey, you should keep an eye on Ethereum as well. And at school during DevCon One was actually some of my, uh, I was telling, uh, I think I was telling Alex Van De Sande of that, uh, one of my classmates spoke at DevCon One, right. Um, but again, just not, just didn't, didn't, uh, didn't jump in. And then I didn't inevitably jump in until, uh, every 2021, I think, under 2020, it started popping up, and right. Um, I saw some absurd tickers on, uh, on, uh, this app called StockTwits, which at the time I was kind of interested in, uh, over the counter stocks. Was this was the GameStop era, it was around the GameStop era. Yeah, there were all these altcoins, the PancakeSwap era, actually, right, right. It's a PancakeSwap era, which was the platform where every absurd ticker at the time, like CAKE, the, you know, coin, or whatnot, on, I think it was, BSC ticks, yeah, BSC ticks was all Finance, uh, Chain, right. You know, I saw these tickers go 5,000 whatever percent every, um, you know, whatever flashed at me, and I was like, okay, I've got to try one of these. And so I got in. But you know, that led me to, you know, okay, what am I actually buying? And then I was, and I started to look into what, uh, you know, when ERC-20 at that time was already established the standard and whatnot, of course. But so looked into that, and you know, Binance Smart Chain, or that's what it's called, it's just an, you know, an emulation of, yeah, yeah, just took the ERC-20 contract and repurposed it. So the ERC-20 is, it, they're all just funny because as we know, you know, Fabian just made the, uh, was the pull request, the 20 request or something. But um, so anyway, yeah, that, that, that went me to contract development. I was interested in, uh, and it went from fungible tokens to non-fungible tokens and got mixed up into an NFT project and became their software engineer, per se, or dev, as I came to find out all the terms of rugged and devving and whatever. Everyone was a dev, and as a dev, um, sorry, we're all, all the devs. Oh, sorry, all the devs with AI, especially, we're all devs. Yeah, yeah, every single version, my, my parents are devs, they're all devs. But um, but it was, yeah, it was funny to me at the time. I was struggling to sort of keep track of all the vernacular and take anything seriously, especially everything was on Twitter Spaces at the time, and right. You know, everyone was establishing their voice on Twitter Spaces, so that, you know, the word rug was probably set up, like, I think there's Rug Radio, which may not exist anymore. Rekt, oh yeah, Rekt, never was some version of Rekt. Yeah, I just got rekt, yeah. So so became this NFTs, to, you know, developer. And I was, you know, developing all these different smart contracts. There there wasn't, I found a lot of creativity was sort of, but everything was a bit of a copy of what somebody else had done in this case, and they were trying to push it. And this

**[06:40] SPEAKER_00:** Is for security, because they're well audited. So yeah, exactly, it's a risk management strategy, yeah.

**[06:47] SPEAKER_01:** There's no, there's no AI to to check. So you just would copy somebody else's, and whether that meant copying, um, already malicious code that was implemented or not, you know, it was, it was funny. I had actually one of the contracts, so this NFT project that brought me in and wanted me to help with development. Their first contract was, they hired a freelance developer, and the, it turned out after we did the second contract, and you know, Mutan, but not, it turned out that the original contract, which they hired this freelance person too, if they had, uh, over, they had, uh, rewrote, or, you know, this, this, from the owner of function, such that they could, uh, the inherited function, they could actually jump in and take, rather, take over anytime, right. They could pull the, the money in that was in the contract. And but was, it was hidden enough because it was on the inherited, uh, class, right, contract class, not the main one, that, right, they didn't see. And I don't think anybody there was technical enough to even read the contract. Well, it happens.

**[07:56] SPEAKER_00:** Apparently back in the day with a bunch of experts. So if you just, you know, winging it, these things.

**[08:04] SPEAKER_01:** 100. I mean, I, I, in my mind, you know, because you were saying you copy these for security, as a joke. I think that in my head at the time, I was like, okay, there's this freelance game that's out there, just telling everybody to deploy these contracts, and then they're sharing the funds or something. But it very well might have just been somebody copy-pasted that from some get hungry. Yeah, they were the

**[08:26] SPEAKER_00:** Scammer. Yeah, they were, they didn't even know, they were just the infection vector for our scams, exactly.

**[08:32] SPEAKER_01:** I, the league, the dead, the head dead at the time, was asked me, he said, so what are the chances that we're going to get, you know, scammed here or whatnot. And I was like, well, take the funds out of this contract, it doesn't seem like they can do anything. But you know, there's different funds in there, like, in theory, this person could come in at any time. Do they know about the fact that this, they've edited this function in a way? Maybe not. So maybe they just copied it from someone else. And ultimately, they, they were forced their hand because OpenSea, uh, actually, uh, maybe flagged them, maybe somebody flagged it for them or something. And I had to do a migration contract. But um, that all this development sir was the seed of the interest for me. And then what led to Ethereum history was a few years later, probably in like 2024 or something for me, um, so pretty recently, or maybe '23, yeah, yeah, probably 2023. Um, anyway, this coin popped up on, right. And so this was actually post, there's this, uh, Relics group, this folks group of Discord, uh, friends that focus their time on collecting NFTs, old NFTs, and old contracts on not just Ethereum, but they're into like the one that was kind of like, oh, um, um, Inscriptions and Ordinals, not Ordinals before. So so before rooms, no, oh, Counterparty, Counterparty, yes, super old. And some of them don't like Counterparty NFTs, or NFTs, because they're not, you know, really, it's, it's all built, you know, it only exists if you have this other massive matter protocol, right, right. So you know, there's, there's a debate and whatnot. But everybody collecting, they basically like these old things. Um, and, and, anyway, they reached out, they found Mist Coin, and they're digging of old contracts, and certainly. And so Mist Coin was was made like as a

**[10:54] SPEAKER_00:** Example token for the Mist, uh, wallet, right. Exactly, yeah, yeah. So Mist Coin was made by Alex

**[11:04] SPEAKER_01:** Van De Sande and Fabian, focused dollar, you know, you know. Well, and you've interviewed, um, Fabian deployed it. Um, but essentially, they were at the time, my understanding, they were developing a feature for the Mist Wallet, the Ethereum Wallet, um, right, uh, to allow for anybody to deploy contracts. And so at the time, you know, before then, you can't click this button, and within the feature, there were templates, right. So it was, it was kind of like the first standard in a way, it was. And it was at the time, it wasn't the standard itself was being molded from before, you launched and whatnot, in the standardized repos. But this morphed, this was the current state of sort of that more standard code. Yeah, and that was that.

**[11:54] SPEAKER_00:** Was still pre-ERC-20, actually, you know, happening, exactly, pre that, uh, whether it was the commit or the

**[12:05] SPEAKER_01:** Or the 20th pull request, I'm not sure, I have to ask Fabian or check the. It, it's funny, actually, the way

**[12:12] SPEAKER_00:** That works is, uh, issues and pull requests are from that same ordinality. So so it doesn't mean it was the 20th pull request, it was the 20th issue or pull requests that have been created. So so yeah, it can be either, because they, they, they never have the same numbering, because that would be ambiguous. So it's the 20th time somebody either made a PR or issue, or put in any issue whatsoever, right. Anyone could just chuck any, any issue in, and that would up the count. So so a number of the, so a good number of the, the numbers are never anything, right. They never like land right on the thing, an issue that says, hey, I don't really like the color red, right. So like, if you look at EIPs now, you know, they're in the thousands, and it's not like because they've been a thousand proposed protocol changes. Okay, chilling. Yeah, that's

**[13:22] SPEAKER_01:** An interesting way of doing it. So so yeah, so EIP-20, yeah. So this was November 3rd was when they deployed that feature, and Mist Coin being the first one that they launched with it. Then, um, DevCon One, they talked about it a little bit, um, Standards Panel, Standards Panel, Simon, uh, Simon de la Rouviere spoke about token standards itself, you know. He was also, um, one of the few who were sort of helping mold this standard. Um, and then a few days later, so the 19th, I think, or so, 19th November is when Fabian and Vitalik sort of formalized this proposal of, right, of the, the, uh, a slight adaptation change of the code of this point. But really, this standard that they had been molding. Um, and it was funny recently, um, I, uh, I found this Ethereum history, digging this digging of old contracts, uh, a coin that Vitalik had deployed. And it wasn't immediately clear that it was a token, you have to really look through the bytecode itself. And it didn't really, uh, when you, if you, since it was written in Serpent, it didn't, oh, right, yeah, yeah, yeah, if you tried to decompile it with the decompiler on Etherscan, it didn't really work well. It's really, really tell on the surface, anyway. Um, if you look through the bytecode though itself, and you're just raw looking at, um, and like analyzing it, which is much easier to do now, uh, with AI, you could tell it's a, it's a token, right. And it turned out, it's actually this currency that he had deployed in the dapp_bin repo in September or earlier, um, maybe September 8th or something, I don't know. But right, but what I thought was interesting, after, you know, I had sort of found the exact Serpent code and proven that, hey, compiles with this version of Serpent, right, um, to this exact bytecode. And I posted about it, Vitalik actually commented on it as well, and read it. And, uh, he didn't answer this question. So if he hears this, hopefully he responds. But my, my, what I was wondering is, so he deployed this days before, uh, I think it was this, maybe November 6th, but days before he went and published, co-published this proposal, the standard. And it, and it's sort of his old, what he would have wanted as a token. I don't know what his, his proposal, early proposal in a way. And I wonder if that was his sort of way of immortalizing, hey, I like this thing, we ended up going with now, I'm going to immortalize mine on chain. You know, I like my way better, different things. So that's why, how I like to imagine it's there, you know. One day, maybe Vitalik will decide, hey, everybody

**[16:26] SPEAKER_00:** Should have my unnamed coin. That's pretty, pretty random what people ended up pushing or not pushing.

**[16:38] SPEAKER_01:** And it's all, yeah. But there's only one. So I mean, I guess Vitalik doesn't make many mistakes, and he probably even was, was using Serpent or whatnot back then. But a lot of folks were testing in

**[16:51] SPEAKER_00:** Production, yeah. This is like, this is no economic value in the army. So right, right. It was, you know,

**[16:59] SPEAKER_01:** Trading a sense to the dollar, back it in. You're like, oh yeah, I spent 10 ETH on, uh, yes. But you know, a lot of the contracts now that I am, so pretty, if you're in history, I'm

**[17:19] SPEAKER_00:** Going to actually introduce them. Well, just before we get to that, so you spoke about this coin as sort of being where you, where you started. So um, is that wrapped now? Is it wrapped? Mist Coin, was that because it was slightly pre-ERC-20, exactly. Did this coin need wrapping? It needed wrapping, it doesn't have

**[17:42] SPEAKER_01:** An approve function. It doesn't have a few other questions. It's, uh, one of the first named tokens, so right. You know, in that way, it's kind of special. Um, and it, it doesn't adhere to the, you know, the current standards, such that if you tried to, you know, create a Uniswap pool for it, right, work, there's no approve from, uh, methods that it needs, or transfer from, an approve, just, it's not going to move. It's not going to move. So so essentially, if you wanted to make it careable, which at the time, so this grew, this Relics group had founded, they found a Mist Coin DAO that Alex had made, and brought this, this, uh, this Mist Coin in. Um, once they acquired some of the Mist Coin, they were given, I think, from both Alex and Hudson, if I'm not mistaken, right, right. Um, they, they then were able to also pull more of Mist Coin from this DAO. So he, I think, Alex had put in a hundred thousand Mist Coin, which is like 10 percent of the entire supply into this DAO. So they took that out. And so now, and then they used it, they, they just, they gave it out to a lot of folks in their community of early NFTs. They kind of like framed it as, hey, this is going to help early NFTs, and they're just going to help boost our community. And you know, they were into that. Um, and so there is now a DAO that holds, I think, like, maybe four percent of the supply at 40,000. Right, right. Rest is kind of giving up to all their folks. Um, and so when I bought it, you know, I bought it as a sucker. I bought it at like 50 hours of Mist Coin or something. I was like, cool, I can own this thing, like everybody else, you know. By the time my timeline didn't reach my timeline, you know, it's too late, right. A lesson for everybody. Um, but, um, or at least at the time. But yeah, so they probably did very well. But they're also, you know, besides that, they are this group, I'm, which, you know, I can't say I'm necessarily part of, um, but I, they very much care for Consular Relics, specifically, as they call them, specifically non-fungible tokens. So they're very much into, uh, just cool collectors. But um, that's some Mist Coin led me into, into this early, you know, interest in early contracts. And once I started to dive into the story of of Mist Coin itself, and, you know, what Fabian and Alex were doing at the time, and how it was the beginning of basically what every, everything that moves Ethereum today. Everything that, you know, people are interested from an external perspective in the tokenization of finance and whatnot. It all stems from the need for there to be a standard. And all that just sort of like, okay, that, that understanding, that importance, or trying to, led me to say, okay, well, what else is out there? What else was happening at the time that, right, that is, is either interesting today or will be interesting later. And can we sort of uncover that now? And um, and, um, and so while I was writing this, you know, writing a website for Mist Coin, and, um, and helping with, um, with any sort of engineering projects that needed to sort of tell that story, it, uh, on the side, I started to download all of the contracts from 2015, and then 2016, and peruse through the bytecode before AI and all these LLMs were out there. So I was really just using, uh, decompilers like Panoramix compilers, and running, running, um, I was running, uh, you know, similarly, similarity text algorithms to try to figure out, okay, um, what is the likelihood of this being a token, or this being an Ownable, or this being fungible, or this being something, right. I look at deploy your addresses, known deployer addresses, type of thing. But it was much more, it was a much more difficult assessment than it is now. And I guess

**[22:14] SPEAKER_00:** It's almost like a reverse engineering kind of discipline. Of you've got this, it has been a lossy thing, right. You know, that compilation process, it's not intrinsically reversible, you know. You, you've got that, uh, data loss, and you've got these patterns. But um, you know, no blockchains ever die. Caveats compiled.

**[22:42] SPEAKER_01:** Exactly. Yeah, it would be really great if, uh, it was possible to have Go, you know, to to make Ethereum in a way that you could actually just store all the code itself, and not have to do the bytecode. And not have to do the bytecode, and not have to do the bytecode. And you know, it's not feasible. Well, I'll tell you

**[22:58] SPEAKER_00:** What funny little thing, actually, is STRATO that I'm working on, uh, that actually does happen for our chain. Because it has an alternate VM, called a SOLID VM, which is an EVM as well. But it's actually an interpreter. So what you have is, you do have source code on chain, which gets deterministically interpreted. So it's almost like you've kind of got Etherscan built in, kind of

**[23:31] SPEAKER_01:** Kind of. Right. And you don't have any issues with, um, having to, you know, transmit large chunks of data

**[23:38] SPEAKER_00:** Through no consensus. No, it's been okay. I mean, yeah, you wouldn't couldn't do that at a huge scale, right. That's, you couldn't do that at a huge scale in a, you know, in a completely commissionless validator scenario. But uh, yeah, there's a, there's an alternate universe, different things have been chosen.

**[24:05] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, because, you know, like you said, it's, it's, uh, before, it's been a challenge. I didn't even really attempt. There was a few attempts, you know. There was a, uh, there's this person who has helped, has done a lot of work in trying to exactly prove the Mist Coin code, and eventually did, uh, for the help of others. But um, it's a guessing game, you know. At a certain point, you're trying to guess the order of functions, the functions, the functions themselves, the method names. Um, and you get to a point where you get close, but, you know, you, and so many things could go wrong. You know, there's so many possible permutations. There's the compiler version, there's those settings, there's the, you know, like I mentioned, the order, the naming of the functions. In some cases, even now, with with LLMs, has made it impossible. Because you know, I'm in one, one, uh, contract, for example, I'm down to just this one function name. And I know that it is more than 10 characters long, because I've tried every possible eight, seven. So I literally had this machine running on my, my computer, just, just chugging through everybody. And it's not, at first, it wasn't even doing anything intelligent. It was literally going A, A, A, A, B, yeah. So it actually, you know, you can't do that once you get to the higher character, that just would take forever. Um, but, but I just gave up, because what's the point? I mean, you know what the function does. And and so you'll see on Ethereum History, some say near exact bytecode, and right, I'll actually indicate, you know, how close it was. Because I'd give up at a certain point, because right, right. As long as you have the exact functionality, and you're pretty close to completing bytecodes, off by a few, um, segments, then right, right. I mean, I guess, you know,

**[26:08] SPEAKER_00:** There's probably a decent amount of the source code is probably on GitHub somewhere. That's another, another

**[26:16] SPEAKER_01:** Tactic. So yeah, yeah. So when I'm doing this, uh, sort of what I call cracking, and there's an Ethereum Histories cracking skill, and whatnot, out there. But um, but one of the, uh, chain approaches is researching. So just going off Reddit and to GitHub, and trying to find the contracts, or or contracts that are similar, even back then, right. Folks were doing, somebody would do something, and another person would make a slight adaptation to it. You know, whether that's naming this function something slightly different, and now I can't guess it. But everything else, in this case, literally everything else, is was, like you said, published somewhere. Yeah, so what, somewhere, somewhere, yes. But you find it through, um, you know, keyword searches on GitHub and stuff that mentions, right, right, yeah, yeah. It's definitely a great tactic, and it, it shows, you know, you can document everything on it during history. Uh, but still, it's great to know that they're fragment, even fragmented out there. As long as the Internet is around, that there are at least other folks documenting in time. Thanks to the Internet Archive, even, uh, even some things that have been removed are still out there. And right, you know, what one of the things I was pretty disappointed about, and maybe they'll bring it back one day, is, is Ethereum took down last year or two years ago, the standards, the standardization repository. So literally, this one GitHub repository that they just kept track, this wiki, they kept track of all of the different standard commits, as as that progressed for, right, or, uh, you know, tokens. So this was a wiki within a given, get out, Ethereum, something, yeah. So so a lot of the commits are still there on, on, uh, Internet Archive, and some folks had forked it at different junctures. So you can kind of find it at different stages, right, right. But um, but I don't know, what's the purpose of taking it down? I mean, I think they probably had some reason, maybe they didn't want to have confusion or something, but

**[28:27] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it's, uh, or sometimes it can just be like, in complete ignorance of the consequences, that it's

**[28:33] SPEAKER_01:** Just somebody cleaning up, or whatever. Yeah. So I mean, I would imagine, hopefully, that somebody at Ethereum has that, as they've sort of downloaded the repo over time, and can stitch it back together. So I, um, for

**[28:52] SPEAKER_00:** Uh, history of white paper, um, so post, Polar, you know, has done a lot of, uh, digging into those details. But it was only through him, I realized that he had got some of those Internet Archive versions of the old wikis. I thought they were like, all way on, like, a very long time ago. Yeah, so it was kind of, uh, kind of fun

**[29:17] SPEAKER_01:** That those are still on the Internet Archive. Another, and you probably remember this, but another thing I found on the Internet Archive, is around that time, in 2015, there was a bulletin, um, that was kept up by somebody in Ethereum. Okay, with, um, it was basically a forum where you can ask questions, but it was all seemingly self-posted, or. Oh, that just the Ethereum Forum. I think it was the Ethereum Forum. And yeah, and there, people were talking, and had its own message threads. And yeah, yeah, that. So that was a

**[29:51] SPEAKER_00:** Discourse, I think. It's Discourse, the software is, um. But yeah, that wasn't used for very long. Like Reddit became a lot popular, became popular. But then I remember, there was a whole bunch of drama about, oh, we're going to shut the forum down, are we not. And then it was like, oh, okay, maybe somebody in the community wants to maintain it. Yeah, but then it's like, oh, but you can't, because you'd be giving over the database that have all the DMs in it, and it would all be like. So I think, I think Hudson kept maintaining it for quite a while. I don't know if it could, ultimately, I'd say. Because yeah, I mean, it would

**[30:34] SPEAKER_01:** Be interesting. And there was definitely at least one contract that, through the Internet Archive, I could see that I was about to get some important information on it, and then it just, you know, next week, it's gone. But yeah, some of these ventures into trying to document some of these contracts go quite deep, you know, into these Internet Archives. And they're not easy to bruise through. So you know, all right. But you know, you get, you get into those old things that have been taken away, and it kind of feels like it's exciting. Because it kind of feels like you're digging into something that nobody knows anymore. Yeah, that's, that's what's kind of kept me going. Um, that is. And it seems like people are genuinely excited, you know. It's, I don't know, it's a small group, and obviously, I only have sort of read it, and and those folks who are still on Twitter, to to sort of, uh, speak to this. Um, I wish there were other avenues, but there is a decent community of folks that still reminisce, and still want to know about it, and know about history. And you know, the first programmable blockchain, what that really is, were like. And not just from people's perspective, but like the actual testing, contracting. So I mean, your

**[31:59] SPEAKER_00:** So your site is ethereumhistory.com. So what, what, what features are there? What, what, what can people see

**[32:07] SPEAKER_01:** If they visit that? So the way my short elevator pitch is, Wikipedia of Ethereum smart contracts. So the idea is, Etherscan itself is great. Etherscan tells you all the facts about every contract that they can find on chain. You know, and you can see, of course, the byte code, you can see the code if they verified it or not. But there's very hard restrictions on how you can verify it, right. And they only support

**[32:40] SPEAKER_00:** A certain, uh, you know, zero or something version of Solidity, right. So like, probably the version when they

**[32:50] SPEAKER_01:** Started, probably, yeah, yeah. You can't go further for the back. So anything early, you can't really verify. But beyond that, actually, adding any descriptions, or anything, or any tags, or anything, is very difficult with Etherscan. So it's really not meant to add any meaningful documentation to a contract. It's really just there to say, this thing exists. Um, and outside of that, you know, there's not either, there's nothing popular, or nothing I could find, that has any sort of purpose of recording the history, like a Wikipedia would, right. And of course, maybe there's some, there's some projects that have gotten to the point at which there is a Wikipedia page, like for that, yes. And it will probably say, a link to Etherscan, or a link to your show, their, you know, contract address, maybe, which probably not, meaningless, that people are probably just place the website. Yeah. So so basically, where's the home for, uh, this Wikipedia? Where's the home for folks who are interested in Ethereum, um, to learn about those early contracts, uh, learn about the story behind them. Um, you know, and, and, and look at the original code itself. You know, not like the mic code, but let's look at the actual code. And and I think, you know, there's two different things that people can take out of that. Um, one is, uh, if you're, if you're interested in the stories, you can go back and sort of see the qualitative stories. They're not always going to be accurate, because every story, right, is a sort of picture of what somebody remembers and tells one other person. And your memories are, of course, just, uh, fickle, and perhaps might not be exactly right, and even a fear. But hopefully, with the idea that Wikipedia is, everybody sort of edits it over time, and it becomes right. So hive mind, yeah, the hive mind, it's going to be perfect. It's very efficient. So anyway, if, right now, the human history is not exactly efficient, because there are 18, uh, different historians, of which the users are called Historians. But of which, or have documented contracts, right. So you know, after everybody watches this video, it's, it's everyone sign up, it's free. Um, but, um, but so one thing you can take away is the stories. Um, and then the other thing that you can take away, is, is like, actually reading the code of all these early contracts. And the vision I have there is, once we do get the code, I want to find of every, or most of these contracts, which we're making pretty strong headway right now. I want, want to find a way to represent that in visual, some sort of visual. In my head, I don't know how this is going to work out, but I am. And I picture like, um, you know, sort of, uh, archaeology, like rocks, you know. The way that sort of, you can look through the layers of the earth, and write history through, right. Some sort of visual representation of that, but through code, functions, or methods, or, I don't really know. It's kind of

**[35:59] SPEAKER_00:** It's a loose thought in my mind. But I would love to use something with a scrubby timeline, somehow, that

**[36:07] SPEAKER_01:** Changes shape, somehow. Yeah. I'm interested, what sort of stories, what, what can we learn about the reuse of different types of methods, and how they, uh, and then maybe the popularity of the contract. Some the amounts that it's been, which you could discern by the number of times it's been replicated, or the number of transactions that have occurred, to the popularity of people. Um, and then how long that has lasted over

**[36:37] SPEAKER_00:** Time, and what that is. Like species coming to life and dying off. And yeah, so yeah, exactly. Look at that dinosaur technique, that literally is a dinosaur technique that's not used anymore. And it's, it's a hard thing

**[36:52] SPEAKER_01:** To, it's, it's a hard thing to keep track of. Because you know, a method has a purpose, right. It's, and it has a name, but it's meant to do something. It might do several things, there might be, but it might be part of a larger set of goals of functions that are calling it, and whatnot, right. But if you're trying to find a thread through history, you might want to look at, you know, you're, you're dealing with a semantics problem as well. Because it's kind of like, it doesn't have to be the exact method, but the same purpose. And has it, yeah, gotten hardened, or worse, or be better over time? You're sort of wanting to infer design patterns

**[37:29] SPEAKER_00:** Out of it, or something, or higher level, like patterns, or or reasoning, or, uh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Hopefully that

**[37:43] SPEAKER_01:** That's possible. Um, and it's sort of like a loose thought in my mind. I don't know, we'll see what people want to build. You know, it's an open source project, so open, hopefully folks will, uh, will add their own pull requests to that sort of thing, or or or issues. And I'll mark them as proposals, uh, EHIPs, regardless of whether it's an issue, right, right. EHIP-1, or if anybody wants to grab a lot of pull requests. Since I'm just gonna go straight, straight to that, right. Just straight to commit, we're going. Um, but, um, but that, yeah, that's so the code, and and the stories are kind of the mangle now. And the other, the other angle I have, so I got into this downloading all of the 2015 to 2017 contracts, depiling them all, right. Loading them up into this database, and then on top of it, I've added these indices on this database, such that you can query through all of the decompiled code, right. The goal there was, anybody should be able to find interesting things through the code. Maybe there's somebody's interested in mining, or, um, they're looking for the first time that the word cat was written somewhere. The decomposite compilation won't be perfect, it might not have the actual first cat, right. There's a chance that it does. And this gives them the ability to search through text, rather than, um, just bytecode. So that was that was the first idea. Now what happens is, every single time a contract is cracked, as I call it, to solve the exact code with this compiler and settings, that gets added to the index as well. So you can actually search through the

**[39:30] SPEAKER_00:** That code, sort of improves that discoverability. So what kind of different existing tools have you been using, or found useful for the, for while cracking, and for researching, yeah, and and disassembling?

**[39:47] SPEAKER_01:** So the disassembling has been interesting, the whole of this whole cracking thing. So it depends on the country. The first thing I'll do, it, and of course, all this heavy usage of AI here, always, yeah, yeah, my AI overlord is helping me out every day. Um, but you know, the first thing I'll have to do is just go through and see, hey, through my, they have this Ethereum History Researcher skill, that just goes through GitHub, Reddit, and tries to find first, you know. It will, it will decompile it, and or use the decompiled code I have already, and try to find, um, anything that resembles it in GitHub or Reddit at the time. And if it finds a match, or it knows of some match, you know, it obviously has its inherent knowledge already. At the time, this, these things were were out there, um, or published. Then it will start there. So it's mostly about finding a starting point. If not the exact code, sometimes it is the exact, sometimes it's like, you know, a very reused wallet at the time, or whatnot, or something, yeah, push. Um, so it's establishing a starting point. And then from there, it's taking the different versions of Solidity at the time, or, um, it will try to, you know, is it, is a Serpent, or is it, you know, LLL, or whatever it may have. Some Mutan, I haven't found it. No Mutan, not yet. Only, I honestly, so far, only Serpent, and, uh, there's, there's two, so Serpent, uh, Serpent, Solidity, of course. And then in some, in some cases, it's just straight like code. I think that they deployed, so they, as far as the AI could discern, there wasn't actually any code that they just created the, right code themselves, right, and launched that. It's strange, because I thought you

**[41:41] SPEAKER_00:** Always had LLL in the line, or maybe this was only for, for Solidity. So I, I think, for Solidity, it was always built on top of LLL at the start, like, kind of using LLL as an assembler, yeah. Um, but, but yeah, I mean, Jeff was working on Mutan up almost until launch, uh. So it might be that there's hardly any Mutan on Mainnet, like, probably a bunch of that on Olympia. But then it, you know, it's kind of, yeah, for the, the

**[42:22] SPEAKER_01:** Ones that it discerned were, um, all done in straight bytecode. Used Yul lang, I think, or something. It's

**[42:32] SPEAKER_00:** Something is somewhat recent, like 2018. Yule? Yul. Yul, sorry. Yeah, but though, who was it, who was talking? Was it, oh, that was, um, yeah, I, I did an interview with, um, Alex Beregszaszi, so axic, A-A-X-I-C, okay, who was Solidity co-lead for many, many years, uh. So he was saying that started, it was called Yule at first, like Julia, yeah, uh, but with a J, I think, okay. But then there's some other computer language called Julia already, so then that changed into Yul. Yul, which is a kind of a intermediate, uh, in some intermediate representation. In that the goal was that the Solidity would compile to to Yul, and then you would have a further compilation step on the back of that. Well, hopefully. So that, I guess, it kind of ended up being sort of like a bit like an assembler.

**[43:48] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, find out. Hopefully they're proud to know that AI is still referring to their, their work. Um, because for those few contracts, and to choose to represent them in Yul, right, that's good. Yeah, cool. Yeah, so that's there. Um, and, uh, so this part of its research, part of it is getting a sort of narrowing, chipping down, if you will, to this, this bytecode. And um, and what that, in the process, of course, it takes it to sort of, you know, the, the time at which this was deployed, right. So you know, the different versions of Solidity that were out there at the time, and you just try to to trial and error kind of thing on

**[44:36] SPEAKER_00:** There's there's no motivator that ends up of the Solidity version in the final bytecode, I, I think, correct

**[44:45] SPEAKER_01:** Me if I'm wrong. I think the metadata started a bit later. There was a, I think there was a particular newer version of the Solidity, where that, uh, started, yeah. I want to say that. Because that became a thing, as I, so the, the person who leads Sourcify, right, um, reached out, and has been really great. He's been helping, uh, he expanded Sourcify, such that it could go down to much earlier versions of Solidity. So I think you can be verifying on Sourcify, and also adding all the, the methods that we uncover, so that they're there for the world to sort of. And what does Sourcify do exactly? Uh, I'm going to butcher this, but sorry. But you know, they, they, you know, seem to be the registry of not just methods that have been ever deployed on the blockchain. Um, so a way to sort of accessible to everybody, but also to verify the actual source code of any particular contract, right. So seemed to be something that you would do going forward for a lot of time, if I understood it correctly. But then they've started to also go

**[46:04] SPEAKER_00:** Backwards, backwards, uh, backwards. And so kind of like, um, taking that, that functionality that you have within Beta Scan, but pull that out into a component that can be used. Exactly, yeah. Maybe the idea was, why

**[46:22] SPEAKER_01:** Should, maybe Etherscan would want to just replace it with Sourcify. But yeah, I've paint, uh, Etherscan a few times, uh, especially as I started, and started to, you know, validate, or crack, a bunch of these earlier contracts that I could not verify. Essentially, the, per the way that you would verify on Etherscan for these older contracts, is you would reach out to support at Etherscan, right. Yes, that's how you would reach, yeah, to respond. And you know, for Mist Coin, we had to go through somebody, and do somebody who was there. And they could, you know, eventually, that person reached back and said, we're going to help you get this verified. But I, you know, cold emailed a bunch of these, and they're really interesting. I mean, they still haven't validated them, for example, Gav Coin, um, the Vitalik's currency, you know. These are like, arguably, very interesting and probable contracts, and from, you know, arguably, very important people in the space. Uh, and they still haven't. So I got, I got this sort of blanket response that was, uh, was, thank you, but you need to be the deployer. Um, would you, are you the employer? Would you like to have, you signed this? Can you sign this transaction? And I was like, sorry, I'm not Vitalik, I cannot sign it. They ended up, somebody did reach out on Twitter, and said, hey, yes, sorry about that, that's our blanket response. And uh, here we actually, we, we helped verify one. And it was one of these, preparing, you know, you know, these preparing is like, I think for 2017 or so, an NFT, like contract. Like, I think it's a more of a fungible, like token, but in some way, that they, they added, uh, metadata onto it. Um, such that there's like, this is not Python Marion. No, no, it's not Piper. Yes, that would be hilarious if this was was Piper. Um, it should be, right, yeah. I never, never, they rolled off the tongue the same way. Um, Peperium, I think it's more about Pepe, you know, right. Every one of them, I think, has some sort of picture of Pepes, right. Um, but anyway, so this Etherscan person verified that one of all the ones that I sent. And I was like, one of the ones I care about, where by one of the top ones. I don't want to say I care one way or another.

**[49:03] SPEAKER_00:** I'm sure a lot of people care about. So so Gav must have deployed Gav Coin onto Olympia, and onto Frontier

**[49:11] SPEAKER_01:** Then, separately. Oh, sure. I'm sure he did on Olympia, he must. It's for fun, right. Um, well, because there

**[49:19] SPEAKER_00:** Was the, there was the talk I found, which was August 2014, I think. Yeah, yeah, with Jeff, with Jeff in London, yeah, doing the decks, you know, demonstrating that, uh, their decks, joking around. That's that's right, how Gav Coins, the better coin. That's it. Um, Gav saying, you know, he values Gav Coin

**[49:58] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, yeah. So you know, I, I can't prove that Gav Coin, the one I found, was right. But you know, I have a chain of information, of thread of different, uh, events that seem to have a strong case. Um, maybe Gavin will listen to this, and decide to tell the whole world that just was deployed. Probably forgotten all such things many years ago. There's another theory I've worked, it could have been potentially deployed by that Roman, uh, the person who ran that, uh, rather Mandaleyil, yeah. Which I, I was, I wasn't around, so I don't really know. I mean, I know Piper, I think, did some work with either camp at the time, and, uh, I believe so. I don't really know, I'm sure about things I read. Um, so yeah, exactly. Oh, so that's that's why I think it might be part of potentially deployed by him. Because I think the deployer might have also deployed Hacker Gold, right. So could that have been, yeah, then. I think it's possible now. So then no, if it, if it was

**[51:21] SPEAKER_00:** Hacker Gold, that would be in Roman, yeah, for sure. So maybe this was, yeah, I have to look, I forget

**[51:29] SPEAKER_01:** Now, it's been a long time of looking at other contracts that follow the deployer. But but some, I found some connection to Hacker Gold as well. So um, maybe Roman wants to tell the world about, I don't

**[51:42] SPEAKER_00:** Know if anybody talks to Roman anymore. I, I, I used to be Facebook friends, but then he seems to have gone off. But yeah, he basically disappeared in 2017, really. But he was around iconic himself, as I, as I understand.

**[52:00] SPEAKER_01:** Some of the firsts that have been from him, it's quite a character. And Hacker Gold

**[52:08] SPEAKER_00:** One of the things that that, uh, that he became dead, which is unbelievable at the time, let alone now, is they, uh, at DevCon 2 in Shanghai, so October 2016, this was. They did this demo called Cash F with Banco Santander, and it was basically a stable coin on Ether, in in browser. So it was sort of like, you've got, you know, some kind of, you know, some kind of MetaMasky thing, yeah, for doing like sending stables in a browser on Ethereum. It was, it was very like, it was, yeah, it was very novel at the time. Also very surprising that they did it with Roman. It's because he was a bit, it's a bit exit shady, uh, uh, yeah, or erratic, shall we say. Yes, he, he, he did not come across as the sort of person that you'd be doing a, you know, a banking partnership. No, but but he went to, he went to Bancos on there, and not JPMorgan, I guess. So but, uh, sorry, but you know, that was that was happening, yeah, all that time back, yeah. That's cool, yeah.

**[53:33] SPEAKER_01:** No, it's interesting. I feel like in the beginning, in the early years, banks were very interested in my theory. And I think, you know, there were some sponsors for DevCon One, yeah, in grad school, where I was. There was certainly, you know, UBS, UBS, yeah. I think JPMorgan might have been. So we had these, you know, at B.A. school, and we had these challenges that companies would come in, and propose, uh, concepts to. And the students, the engineering and the business school students, would come up with, you know, sort of solutions to these challenges, in the form of products, or companies, or whatnot, or ideas. And one of the banking one was was blockchain. And basically, the challenge was, incorporate blockchain into our, in some way that's useful for us, right. It was, and the team, of course, I think, you know, they explicitly said Ethereum, which just launched, it was like 2015. Right, why not, why not. But yeah, banks, banks really, of course, they've stuck around, some other ETFs, and making loads of money off of blockchain assets, of ERC-20s that came from this coin. There you go, and started back. Okay, well, which is also an arguable thing, what is it to say that, you know, the origin of something.

**[55:09] SPEAKER_00:** Well, everything's built on the top of everything else, right. It's all just ideas. Maybe that's a good place to wrap up. Sure, thanks so much. Yeah, so you're very welcome. And uh, Ethereum Classic, sorry, Ethereum History dot com. Yes, this is the site for people to go. And so we've got a call to action to, uh, get people to come, and call to come, and uh, come and have a look. You can sign up with Google

**[55:45] SPEAKER_01:** GitHub, create an account, just simply with your wallet. You can create an account with a big email, it doesn't matter. Uh, the, the idea is just to come in, and help document old contracts. Whether that's, you're just, you know, there's somebody who's helping out a lot right now, who's just, uh, spending his time during work, because he's bored, you know, calling, telling his AI friend to to help document. He's doing great work, he's cracking, he's cracking all these early contracts. And so if anyone's interested in just spending some time, helping research, and adding, uh, and documenting, you can just do it without any approval. Um, and this sort of Wikipedia of Ethereum will solve itself without imperfection over time. I won't tell the right stories, of course, if you're malicious and you're trying to just mess everything up, please don't join. Because we're trying to document Ethereum's history accurately. But um, but yeah, it'd be great if it takes up. I mean, I think it really is something that, you know, doesn't exist anywhere else. And um, and should have utility for the people over time that it gets filled out. Um, and it's, I do have this vision, I didn't say earlier. I have this, and I, I have ideas already. I've already sort of formulated the contract, but of putting it on chain. So they're, you know, basically like hashing the JSON of the kind of, whatever content we want to keep, and then pushing the hash on chain. So it's not an insane amount of money that needs to be deployed each time there is a change. But right, those things are difficult, because of the monetary aspects of it. But it does, you know, make sense that something about Ethereum should have Ethereum involved.

**[57:28] SPEAKER_00:** Uh, I'm gonna get the, uh, the Ouroboros, uh, snake eating itself, exactly. Until it's all, everything, because every time that you push one of the your caches on, then you've got to push the hatch of the hatch of the hatch. Oh, it never ends, right. Because that, that true. Yeah, no, it has to be, uh,

**[57:49] SPEAKER_01:** This, it's, yeah, otherwise you lose the history, right, of, uh, you're right. Okay, that's a good point.

**[57:55] SPEAKER_00:** Can never end. It will grow until the whole of the chain is, it's taken up by the hashes.

**[58:04] SPEAKER_01:** Which is poetic, in a way, that Ethereum should be taken up by Ethereum.

**[58:12] SPEAKER_00:** Okay, well, thanks so much. Thanks, Bob, just, all right. Thank you. I hope the audio is okay. I, I've noticed that was buzzing, like the air con was a bit noisy at times, but then it stopped. Yeah, if it doesn't work, we can always

**[58:31] SPEAKER_01:** You