**[00:02] SPEAKER_02:** Hello. Hello. We are live. So welcome to Online Oracles. I am Bob Summerwill. I'd like to welcome the rest of our guests here. So we have Michael Tan. We have Victor Wong. We have Kieran James Lubin. And also today making an appearance is Jeff Powell. Hello. Would you like to please introduce yourself, Jeff?

**[00:36] SPEAKER_00:** Thanks, Bob. I'm Jeff Powell, head of business development at BlockApps. I've been working with people on this video for getting close to five years now. And in recent years, I've done a great deal of work on our tokenized metals campaigns. So very excited to be here today to talk about silver.

**[01:02] SPEAKER_02:** Absolutely. Maybe a little bit. That's it. You're absolutely perfect for the topic today. So yeah, our topic today is silver at all time high, what's going on. But we've also got gold at all time highs having happened after that.

**[01:21] SPEAKER_01:** But before we get into those, we are going to have a little bit of a demo or conversation from Michael. What have you got for us?

Sure. So I'm going to be demoing the Strato Easy Safe Bridging process. Right now, we have a bridging contest going on where if you bridge in a certain amount, 10% of that goes to a pool that will be distributed to the winner through a lucky draw. Points are generated through the Strato rewards program so everyone has a chance to win. You've got to be in it to win it. This is the current leaderboard on Strato Scan if you want to check it out.

Now I'll demo the Easy Save. Once you log in to your account - a lot of money here - you go to this deposit function, click deposit button, connect your wallet. To be clear, I'm doing this on the test net, but the process on production is exactly the same. You can bridge in either USDT or USDC. Let's do USDT for this one. We'll do a hundred. Make sure this is checked so that it goes directly to the lending pool. Pause and earn. Confirm. Confirm. Takes a second. The bridge is on the Ethereum side, which did go into autosave. And there you have it. One to two minutes it'll be directly in the lending pool. If you want to check it out, you can go to advanced lending pool and your funds will be in here. Okay. Back over to you, Bob.

**[03:21] SPEAKER_03:** Kieran or Victor, anything you'd like to say about that?

Yeah, we wanted to have a very convenient way. Some of the users out there in the world just want simple, pretty good yields that's better than you typically get from a savings account and not too much thinking. So Easy Savings. Yes, you need, at least for now, to have a crypto native wallet. But from there, it's essentially one click, as you saw, to your call at 4% yield, depending on the circumstances. It's different on the test net than the live net. We're just happy to make it still DeFi native, but as consumer friendly as possible. Thanks, Michael. Take care.

**[04:16] SPEAKER_02:** So Geoff, tell us about 47th Street. I always keep hearing about 47th Street from you. What's going on there?

Well, of course, when we talk about 47th Street, we're talking about 47th Street in Manhattan, which many people know as the Diamond District. It's filled with stores buying and selling diamonds and other precious stones. But it's also an epicenter for the buying and selling of precious metals, very specifically gold and silver. As BlockApps started tokenizing metals, we established relationships with various dealers and vaulters. But 47th Street became really a prime source for us for learning about the business. There's actually very large supplies of gold and silver there. We've developed helpful partnerships to successfully move into the tokenization business for gold and silver. That's really been an important part of our Strato platform.

**[06:19] SPEAKER_03:** Well, good to have those connections, that's for sure. So what is happening with the price of precious metals right now? Well, before we get into that, maybe we could talk a little bit about why we got into precious metals in the first place. Please do. And Kieran, I'm going to flip that to you for a second.

Yeah, okay. I will tell an anecdote. In 2020, roughly around March, we were fleeing our office. Based on the reaction, I got to thinking we're clearly going to print a whole ton of money. So I was thinking what should I get into to hedge against the expanding money supply. I got out of anything that had to do with lending. We printed like 40% of the dollars in existence inside a year. Got into more crypto - I've always been in crypto. And I bought the GLD ETF or IAU. And that thing just sat there for like two plus years. I thought it was an inflation hedge. Everything risk on went crazy. Zoom went up at like 10x. I did buy a little Zoom at that time. I called it right, but it was too small a trade. And the metals did nothing for like a couple of years. Crypto, ETH went from like 80 back to in the range that we're accustomed to. That was good. The metals did nothing for like a couple of years. So I think I exited flat. Crypto people tend to be hard money oriented. Crypto is better than precious metals in a lot of ways. But I was like, how could I have been so wrong? And I guess it was just five years early. It took the world a while to pay attention again.

During this period, we were moving out of our enterprise phase where we did a lot of big implementations with Fortune 500 companies. Then we were getting interested in the transaction aspect. We tokenized many different assets for the corporates and then started tokenizing assets in a more NFT style. We did a lot with carbon offsets because all the corporates were screaming for them. It's definitely cooled off a little bit. It was a natural flow from our supply chain work. We were kicking around what about metals. We looked at commodities like nickel which proved to be complicated. We ended up finding really a lot of demand for precious metals. There's intersection between hard money types and the crypto types. The metals are sort of the boomer version of crypto. Maybe that's changing. The call was totally right by accident in a sense although I always was inclined positively towards them.

**[10:23] SPEAKER_04:** Well, I think there was one other thing we talked about at the time too. When we got into crypto, everyone thought of it as a store of value, a hedge against other world events. But they seem to move more in line with the stock market. It's high beta. It's not really a true hedge, where metals acted more like a true hedge. So it provided that opportunity too.

**[10:50] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think both of those are really interesting. And Kieran, since you went back in time a few years, something else that I think was a key point in the popularity of metals was in September 2023. Gold was selling for about $1,900 an ounce. Silver was selling for $22, $23 an ounce. That month, Costco started offering gold bars, selling them very low margin, 1% to 2% above spot. If you were a Costco VIP member or using the Costco credit card you could get a discount. You could practically buy gold bars at spot. From a business standpoint it was just another loss leader for them. It's estimated that since then, for close to two and a half years, Costco has been selling 100 to 200 million dollars a month of gold bars. I think that really opened up people to this idea of this alternative asset. Not that gold was new, but domestically that really boosted it.

**[12:24] SPEAKER_02:** Without having to go off to a bullion dealer, you could go in and buy your groceries and on the way out pick up a gold bar.

**[12:37] SPEAKER_04:** As one does. In America, as one does. Is that your dollar cost averaging? Add a bit of silver onto your groceries. If you have the highest level of Costco membership, you also get cash back. So there's an arb opportunity there. Kieran will be running to Costco after this. Get an SUV, max out his Costco membership, do all of that stuff.

**[13:24] SPEAKER_00:** But moving forward into the last year is when it's really exploded, both gold and silver. A year ago, silver was selling for like $30 an ounce as opposed to what it was today. Last time I looked, it was $112 an ounce. And gold has basically doubled. We talk about these things as hedge against inflation, concerns about minting dollars, global instability. But Karen, you really think that's what it is? You think these are the factors that are driving it?

**[14:20] SPEAKER_03:** Well, okay. I think maybe the biggest factor probably is more than one thing at once. I believe that over the last few years we scared the world enough that central banks started to deleverage from the dollar. People are selling treasuries in pretty big numbers and buying gold and silver. Central banks. And that has to mathematically provide a lot of the demand. Big central banks, India, China and so on, started dumping on one side and buying precious metals on the other. This cycle really started with the aggressive sanctions. The Russia case in particular. Various oligarchs having their funds frozen all over the place. The SWIFT disconnect. You can't have something be world money and then start revoking a nation's access to it. Crypto had been experiencing that treatment for some time, which is why plenty of us don't trust the dollar altogether. The new administration has a fairly bare-knuckled statement and negotiating style. There are long-run effects of the tariff situation. There seems to be a realigning world order going on that just doesn't trust the dollar the way it used to. It's getting multipolar basically. So I think those are the things that could move the price pretty big. I've also heard some of the large banks are in market buying up. Some of them are bigger in metals than others. They may be hedging against this trend. Silver probably is higher beta than gold. It's definitely more volatile. So you'd expect slightly different behavior between gold and silver. I wanted to touch on the Bitcoin ETH analogy. I like to say tongue-in-cheek that Bitcoin's like gold, it just sits there. Whereas like silver, you're using it. You've got semiconductor applications and solar. You're actually using it for something. And somehow the gold is worth way more. It's kind of funny. The price of silver is so high that there are cases where it's hard to substitute industrially. So it's actually going to mess with commerce. One good thing about commodities is that when the price is really high, you tend to mine more of them. So I don't think we're going to see silver just up for a while. You'll start to see mining action happen and the price will correct a little bit. But I understand that mining takes a while to turn around. It takes a while for that to get run in for sure.

**[19:17] SPEAKER_00:** Talking about institutions regarding treasuries as less of a safe haven for the reasons that you mentioned. So the way you see it is that then gold or precious metals filled that gap, right?

**[19:33] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, if you want sovereign savings and you can deal with it. In inflationary times the commodities do really well. They did really well in the 70s. You can have control of it. Maybe you can mine it within your own borders. It's a better hedge in an environment where the dollar is not acting like a somewhat fungible bearer asset.

**[20:09] SPEAKER_00:** Okay. Another quick question about the dollar. For us or some of us on this call, certainly a feeling of lack of confidence in the dollar. But is that what it is in terms of the central banks? Is it lack of confidence in the dollar or is it just diversification?

**[20:30] SPEAKER_03:** Why now and why so big? They could have diversified at any time. I think it is a sober evaluation that we must continue to print the dollar. Our federal spending is up 30, 40 percent from 2020. At a certain point, you're going to both have to borrow. That's getting harder because people expect inflation to be higher. So you'd have to charge more interest on the debt. But we can't because it's so huge. Or you're going to tax more, or you're going to print. Those are your choices. It is the dollar you could borrow it really cheaply because people needed it for everything. The US exports dollars and gets goods and services back. It's changing. It's not over. Still most trade for convenience. The medium exchange value of the dollar will probably not go away but the savings value yes. If you can manage to hold the gold and silver or any number of other things probably it's a good idea.

**[22:19] SPEAKER_04:** And also, I think some nations do want to kneecap the US a little bit. On the industrial use case, the big use cases for silver are solar panels and EVs, which is dominated by China. China has 80% of the world's solar panel production. BYD is the largest car manufacturer in the world and they mainly do EVs. One of the effects of the trade war is that Chinese companies are actively searching new markets. You can see the number of BYD cars in Mexico or European countries has increased dramatically. On the Shanghai exchange, silver hit all time highs even in December. The shift is silver kind of like rare earths is becoming a strategic asset in the mind of Chinese government officials. They implemented export controls that went into effect in January. So you can't freely export from China now. China is only the fourth largest producer of silver. They are a net importer of silver because of all these manufacturing things. But it's signaling they consider this a strategic asset. It wouldn't surprise me that they would be stockpiling silver in the same way they stockpiled Nvidia chips ahead of bans. They tend to have long-range planning in terms of these assets. So I think that's part of the factor that could be driving up the price as well.

**[24:26] SPEAKER_03:** Minister of the Chinese Strategic Civil. He hasn't got any inside knowledge.

**[24:31] SPEAKER_04:** No inside info. I have no inside info on this. But it's just the way they've behaved. When they think of something as strategic, whether it's AI chips or some mineral or some resource, they stockpile it. They do it gradually so the world doesn't really notice until it really notices. I would suspect something like that is happening as well.

**[25:02] SPEAKER_02:** Thinking back to my own earlier experience, I was aware of Bitcoin for a few years before I had any interest. The reason I wasn't interested is because I was a gold bug and a silver bug and a software engineer. I was doing very well on silver through 2009, 2010 and 11 until I leveraged myself up the wazoo on the previous big spike and then down we came. Find myself in debt for a long time. Don't use leverage kids. By the way, our legal has reminded me, I should say, none of what we're saying should be considered investment advice. Especially not with leverage on volatile assets. A lot of the stories around that time, the narratives is the same sort of stuff that we've already spoken about. Caveat, this industrial use stuff has really ramped up a lot more over that 10 to 15 year period.

**[26:24] SPEAKER_04:** Canada just announced that they're going to be importing China EVs. I'm eager to get my hands on one of these because my friends in China have been mocking me shamelessly with pictures of their cheap beautiful Chinese EVs. To extend your analogy on the ETH Bitcoin analogy with gold, silver, I do think there's some rebalancing going on. Those assets tend to stay in sort of fixed value to each other. Gold had a huge ramp up over the summer. There was a lagging kind of ramp up of silver too. Now that gold is hitting highs again, you're going to continue to see rebalancing. Typically the ratio of gold to silver value is like 84 to 5 to 1. In the summer, 90 to 1. You're going to see some rebalancing across portfolios as well.

**[27:38] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think that people in the silver business very much feel that way. Bob, going back to 47th Street, even at the end of 2025, when silver hit $70 an ounce, people were saying to me it's overpriced, it's just a matter of when it's going to come down. Those people still feel the same way, even though it's done nothing but go up since then.

**[28:07] SPEAKER_04:** Well, one thing, Jeff, is that oddly, the things we talked about, like Costco's own gold and silver, has increased the buy side. But it's actually not easy to exit at a good price. I know you had some experience with this, right?

**[28:27] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it is interesting. Based on conversations I've had this week with big companies that buy and sell a lot of gold and silver. Right now they are so overwhelmed with people selling gold that if you want to sell online to one of these big outfits, the minimums have now increased to $10,000 or $20,000 if you are selling silver. The time to get those deals done where it used to be you could do it online or talk to them, they'll help you ship it, they'll verify it, pay you the next day. Now they're saying might take a week to get it and pay you within eight to ten days. The rates that they might be sure though like it could be they're short on everything, including willingness to pay anywhere close to spot price. This shows you why tokenized silver is clearly better. Our tokenized silver is going close to spot. Tokenized silver is better. Also one of the things I really like about it is that the tokenized metals are like a settlement instrument the way that crypto is. It's instant.

**[30:06] SPEAKER_03:** On this point, Paulo, CEO of Tether, said something like I wouldn't be surprised if a government issues a gold-backed stablecoin, a tokenized gold instrument to compete with the dollar sometime soon. Bear in mind Tether is sitting on billions of dollars of balance sheet gold that it tokenizes. Maybe they know something we don't. They're trying to bring back the gold standard. Here we go. Make Ron Paul happy.

**[31:50] SPEAKER_04:** As a crypto person but on the practical side, we love all the assets. They seem to be a little bit anti-correlated just as stocks and crypto are. You're probably better off having both tokenized metals and crypto versus just one or the other. Not investment advice. The wild times. It's a little bittersweet. We have a little bit of corporate gold and silver. We're happy but it's also like these prices are saying something bad about the world maybe.

Change is always painful. I do think it's sort of a bet that the world is gonna be a little bit unstable going forward. It's not a hard bet. It's not a difficult bet to make.

**[32:17] SPEAKER_02:** Tomorrow I'm doing a Spaces with F Denver to talk about a collaboration between myself and Jessica Angel, who's the creative director there, which is an exhibit called the Museum of Ethereum. We're doing Spaces about this tomorrow. A little preview is at F Denver there will be an area when you first come into the main venue, a futurescape build out. One of the things in there will be the Museum of Ethereum. This is happening because it's the first Denver after 10 years of Ethereum. There's going to be a mixture of physical and digital artifacts there. Leaning on the work we've had with early days of Ethereum and the interviews here. Also doing some stuff with physical computers which will be quite interesting. I'm calling that the Ethereum time machine. If you tune into the spaces tomorrow, you'll hear more about that. Or if you come into Denver, you will see the Museum of Ethereum. That's something that Strato's supporting.

**[34:10] SPEAKER_03:** Kieran, when you started the early days of Ethereum series, did you ever think it would be made physical in some form? No, but yeah, it merits a museum. We need to preserve all the artifacts, cast them in metals. We need bronze statues of Vitalik somewhere.

**[34:36] SPEAKER_04:** Something which has actually been very helpful is the rise of AI. When I started doing my researchy stuff back in 2017, it was so slow and manual trying to find details. Now any of the major LLMs are great at digging things out. We are recovering its archaeological work of recovering things which is only a few years ago but in the crypto world 10 years is like forever. We're like order of magnitude above dog years in the crypto world. Okay thank you everyone take care bye bye.