**[00:05] SPEAKER_01:** Okay, volume's good? Ready to go? All ready? So, hi, I'm Bob Summerwill, here with Early Days of Ethereum, and we have, as I guessed, AVSA, the world-famous AVSA of Mist fame and more. So, great to see you.

**[00:44] SPEAKER_00:** Well, Bob, thanks for having me. I do think that the people who knew Mist is a public that is small and dwindling, so I don't think it's... I don't think... It's basically... like OGs of crypto or blockchain archaeologists, which I think is a fun little group. My wife, when I told my wife that my work is so old that there are people who call themselves archaeologists studying it, she found it like, are you a dinosaur? What is this?

**[01:22] SPEAKER_01:** I like to say I'm not old. I'm very experienced and I think that's the same in your case. I have heard numerous people saying they want Mist 2, they want Mist back, that original vision is still very appealing and perhaps some new formulation of it is workable and possible these days. So you never know.

**[01:51] SPEAKER_00:** Maybe we should tell people what the heck is Mist or what that was, right? Yes, go for it. So I started working on Ethereum in 2014, so that was before networks launched, and they hired me to do a browser. And I think what I did, and that browser was called Mist, and what I think when people say, oh, I miss Mist, what I think they are doing is not that they missed the browser that we did, which wasn't very good. It was nice, but I mean, not so many failures, but what I think we try to do an amalgamate of what was the Web3 vision of the early days. What we did is that we took everything that people were ideas that are floating around on white papers, on forums, and said, hey, we're going to do a browser that you can go and download those things and play with them. And you download them from your peers. You connect via encrypted apps directly peer-to-peer, and it was the realization of the famous three-legged stool of Ethereum.

**[03:06] SPEAKER_01:** The Trinity, that is sometimes called.

**[03:08] SPEAKER_00:** Exactly, where you have Ethereum working as the backend, so Ethereum would sort of replace the servers, but you'd still have decentralized storage and decentralized messaging, and that holy trinity would make what we call now Web3, what we wanted to call Web3. And I still think that in order to call something Web3, at least, at minimum, you need to have a peer-to-peer browser or decentralized storage of some sort.

**[03:43] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I mean, it's really, I think, that front-end piece that is commonly missing now. You know, we've sort of fallen back into convenience of having servers. You know, I guess it started probably within Frontier, right? Was, okay, actually having a node, local node on your machine, it's taken a long time to sync. Don't like this user experience, but... But that's been a very common failure point, you know, for many projects is, you know, that front end gets attacked. You have to have some people that are kind of running that server. Even if it's not like a company running it, like somebody's there. It's always the junction points, kind of, I guess, like with exchanges and fiat, right? It's like, yeah, you move stuff around. But like, how do you get real world money in? You know, it's that junction point. So, yeah, you know, Mist was really that really brave attempt at doing the whole thing, right? That you would have Swarm as a decentralized storage, but then... you can have an incentives layer on that because you've got smart contracts in Ethereum and then you've got Ether currency that you can be paying those incentives with. And then you can have your source code on Swarm and references a hash back to it and then Whisper for the conversation. So yeah, I think many people were really inspired by especially your Mist presentation, which I think was October 2014.

**[05:22] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, so we are all at Devcon in Buenos Aires, and a lot of people are complaining about the internet, right? It's a constant complaint. And it's funny because we have 1,000 people here, 10,000, I heard 20,000 people here. Everyone has in their pocket a computer that is more powerful than any server 10 years ago. And I would say that 90% of people are just trying to connect to the same services, right? Everyone is trying to connect to the same wallets, to the same interfaces, trying to download the same files. So why do we actually need that in order to do that, everyone needs to go through the same network, through an antenna over there, through a server in the United States. Why can't, like if you're making me a demo of my app, why can't I just be downloading directly from your...

**[06:24] SPEAKER_01:** content yeah you you know you your friend who wants you to look at their thing like they've got it so two other sorts of instances just this week I saw of this were Lefteris was saying, you know, the Internet coverage is terrible in here. You know, I love this event, love the organizers, but, you know, nobody can do anything because of the, you know, the lack of Internet coverage. But he says, but Rotki can still run. You know, come here. You know, I