**[00:05] SPEAKER_00:** Okay, volume's good? Ready to go? All ready? So, hi, I'm Bob Samuel, here with Early Days of Ethereum, and we have, as I guessed, AVSA, the world-famous AVSA of Mist fame and more. So, great to see you. Well, Bob, thanks for having me. I do think that the people who knew Mist is a public that is lowly and dwindling, so I don't think it's a... I don't think... It's basically...

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** like OGs of crypto or blockchain archaeologists, which I think is a fun little group. My wife, when I told my wife that my work is so old that there are people who call themselves archaeologists studying it, she found it like, are you a dinosaur? What is this? I like to say I'm not old.

**[01:25] SPEAKER_00:** I'm very experienced and I think that's the same in your case. I have heard numerous people saying they want Mist 2, they want Mist back, that original vision is still very appealing and perhaps some new formulation of it is workable and possible these days. So you never know.

**[01:51] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe we should tell people what the heck is Mist or what that was, right? Yes, go for it. So I started working on Ethereum in 2014, so that was before networks launched, and they hired me to do a browser. And I think what I did, and that browser was called Mist, and what I think when people say, oh, I miss Mist, or I think they are doing, it's not that they missed the browser that we did, which wasn't very good. It was nice, but I mean, not so many failures, but what I think we try to do an amalgamate of what was the Web3 vision of the early days. What we did is that we took everything that people were ideas that are floating around on white papers, on forums, and said, hey, we're going to do a browser that you can go and download those things and play with them. And you download them from your peers. You connect via encrypted apps directly peer-to-peer, and it was the realization of the famous three-legged stooge of Ethereum. The Trinity, that is sometimes called. Exactly, where you have Ethereum working as the backend, so Ethereum would sort of replace the servers, but you'd still have decentralized storage and decentralized messaging, and that holy trinity would make what we call now Web3, what we wanted to call Web3. And I still think that in order to call something Web3, at least, at minimum, you need to have a peer-to-peer browser or decentralized storage of some sort.

**[03:43] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean, it's really, I think, that front-end piece that is commonly missing now. You know, we've sort of fallen back into convenience of having servers. You know, I guess it started probably within Frontier, right? Was, okay, actually having a node, local node on your machine, it's taken a long time to sync. Don't like this user experience, but... But that's been a very common failure point, you know, for many projects is, you know, that front end gets attacked. You have to have some people that are kind of running that server. Even if it's not like a company running it, like somebody's there. It's always the junction points, kind of, I guess, like with exchanges and fiat, right? It's like, yeah, you move stuff around. But like, how do you get real world money in? You know, it's that junction point. So yeah, you know, Mist was really that really brave attempt at doing the whole thing, right? That you would have Swarm as a decentralized storage, but then you can have an incentives layer on that because you've got smart contracts in Ethereum and then you've got ETH, the currency that you can be paying those incentives with and then you can have like your source code on Swarm and references a hash back to it and then Whisper for the conversation. So yeah, I think many people were really inspired by especially your missed presentation, which I think was October 2014.

**[05:22] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so we are all at DevConnect in Buenos Aires, and a lot of people are complaining about the internet, right? It's a constant complaint. And it's funny because we have a thousand people here, 10,000, I heard 20,000 people here. Everyone has in their pocket a computer that is more powerful than any server 10 years ago. And I would say that 90% of people are just trying to connect to the same services, right? Everyone is trying to connect to the same wallets, to the same interfaces, to the same, trying to download the same files. Right, so why do we actually need that in order to do that, everyone needs to go through the same network, through an antenna over there, through a server in the United States. Why can't, like if you're making me a demo of my app, why can't I just be downloading directly from your?

**[06:24] SPEAKER_00:** content. Yeah, you know, your friend who wants you to look at their thing like they've got it. So two other sorts of instances just this week I saw of this were Lefteris was saying, you know, the Internet coverage is terrible in here. You know, I love this event, love the organizers, but, you know, nobody can do anything because of the, you know, the lack of Internet coverage. But he says, but Rotke can still run. You know, come here. You know, I can show you because... It's a local first application and the data was on this machine and he can do the processing. There's a bunch of things that you can do without that connectivity if you do have that data locally. And then the second one is it was just a few days ago where there was a massive Cloudflare outage that basically took down the whole world. So yeah, we have these weaknesses for sure.

**[07:26] SPEAKER_01:** And I can guarantee to you that I would bet that most of the Rotki, I think Rotki is a great example, because most of the files you need to run Rotki are, if you pack everything in a zip file, it's probably smaller than a cat video, right? And I can send you a cat video right now with AirDrop, but I cannot send you the RotKiddy app for you to run and for you to take a look. And I think that's what we were trying to do back in 2014. We wanted this idea that you're going to have the full Web3 experience. and we wanted you, that every one of our users would run a full node of Ethereum, they would run a full node of Swarm, they would run a full node of Whisper, right? And that was the dream, and that was also why it failed, because in the beginning, man, you need to take a few minutes to think your node whenever you started it. By the next year, it was a few hours. By the end, it was a few days. before you could sort it. And so I was telling people, look, you can open this browser, and it takes three days to put it up, and then you'll be able to run a decentralized front end that nobody has. Or you can just download the MetaMask extension, and it will run instantly on the current Web2 infrastructure, right? Which, that's why they won.

**[09:00] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, and I mean, in what I was doing as well, I guess I was fairly naive in the same way of thinking, okay, yeah, you know, we're running full nodes now, but, you know, there'll be, like, client stuff soon, and you'll be able to, like, whatever, like, start at a checkpoint, you know, get trusted state off someone, you know, and then... So, yeah, you start at the end, but, you know, maybe it can go back and fill the things in later. You know, you can have a... a trust-minimized starting point that isn't complete trust, but it's probably good enough, right? Okay, we'll start at their block a day ago or something, right? Something can be attesting to these good points and you can just jump in quicker. And especially on the like client, just thinking, we'll be able to have a syncing client, like client in a browser. Maybe you don't even need a native node. You can just sort of drop in and off you go. So yeah, that didn't pan out.

**[10:05] SPEAKER_01:** I just got out a talk where Vitalik was saying that how with the new changes they're doing in Proof of Stake, you'll soon be able to run a full node in a smartphone, in a browser, something like that, which I think it's fantastic we need that, but it's still, like after 10 years, it's still coming soon, right? And I admit, like Proof of Stake really changed the game because where before you needed a form, now all you need to do is like a tiny depth node But that is like one tiny computer that is running all the time just for keeping sync with the network. We are still not there yet, even on the light client on a phone part. You cannot run a validator on a phone yet. Maybe someone has it as an experimental thing, but it's simply not there, right? And then that's not even talking about the rest of the stack. where we had Swarm or even IPFS. You still cannot trust IPFS. Swarm is 10 years in development and it's still, they say it's working, it's live, haven't tested it. I have tested the IPFS a lot and every time I test it, it's sort of working but it's low and it's simply not a great user experience.

**[11:29] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean, I think a lot of techs have been an awful lot more work than we anticipated. You know, another one pops to mind for me there is Status. So, you know, Status kind of trying to do a similar thing, right? You know, here's the everything app on mobile. running a node, but then they had to make their own node, so that's Nimbus, and then they were doing stuff with Whisper, and Whisper didn't really work out, so it's onto Waku, and yeah, you can have a situation where people are dependent on pieces which are still not there. They're better than they were, but it's still an ongoing process. But I think ZKs are really going to help, though, because you're not having to do the full execution. If you're just doing proofs, I think that's a great path to lighter models. So you were talking about a presentation I gave in October, right? So to give context, I was hired, I think, in September of 2014 from the foundation.

**[12:35] SPEAKER_01:** So I started following Ethereum, I probably read the white paper, I was fascinated by it, I couldn't think about anything else. I downloaded the only piece of graphical user interface called Aleph0, and it was like, horrendous. It felt like driving a plane, like trying to land the plane. And I made a better version of that, which I thought was a better version, sent it on the Reddit, and then got Gav and Jeff wanting to talk to me. And Gav told me, I don't think you're thinking about this enough, right? I think you didn't go far enough. And let me tell you about Web3. And that's when he started telling me about how they wanted to run a browser, and I could be the lead developer for that browser. So I flew into Berlin in November, I think, for DevCon Zero, and I gave a presentation on what I thought we could do with this browser called Mist. And one funny thing I find about the presentation is that there is one slide where I'm presenting Like the dapp store, right? The idea is that we are going to take everything that you are talking about in theory and we are going to just release it as dapps. And I was presenting a lot of things because in my mind it would be, look, you're going to download it from ethereum.if and I presented that, I thought, look, We are, of course, we are going to launch a name register system. Of course, they're going to be.if. And of course, it's going to take like maybe a month of development and then we're done. And then we have all those cool things that we can probably do every month. We do a new contract and dapp and people can download, can share it. It's going to be cool. You can do a hackathon and then you can do a prediction market. You do another hackathon, then you have a moody thing. And then looking back at that, I can tell you that every single one of those things that I pointed as a quick thing that would take a month, they are today or at least were at some point a company worth hundreds of millions of dollars developing for the best part of 10 years. ENS, for example, I ended up launching ENS as a feature. I just thought, like Nick, I met Nick Johnson at the foundation. I wanted to do a name registration. He had a few ideas. We got together. We launched it. And I was like, yeah, great. I can go back to work on what I care about, the browser. And he came, kept developing on ENS. ENS now is a whole DAO with 10 teams working on them full time. It handles at least like half a billion dollars in tokens and in assets and treasuries. DAO was supposed to be just a feature. And then that became like a half a billion dollar ecosystem on its own. And I think that tells you about the difficulty of building those things. Because I think I remember seeing an example for that. It's saying, oh, look, you can do DNS in 10 lines. Do you remember that? You know, it's just like, yep, there's this thing and you can set or you could read and it's like, this will be trivial. So we used to have shirts and on the back of the shirts, conference shirts, I still have them. I was using them the other day. On the back of the shirt, there will be code saying, look, you can run DNS in 10 lines of code. You can run a democracy in 100 lines of code. You can make your own money in 50 lines of code. I loved giving that presentation. I would give a presentation in which I would go on mainnet, put five ethers, deploy a live contract, a democracy, a DAO, put five ethers, make a vote somewhere, and just spit it all live during five minutes in a presentation. I bet if you look at my history, there are probably a few DAOs forgotten with five ethers on them, because back then, it was like just a couple bucks, right? And I... I loved the presentation and to be fair, I still like the idea that you can just deploy code and it works better than many governments do.

**[17:06] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So, yeah, I mean, I remember that those code T-shirts, I saw them first at that Toronto Bitcoin Expo, which was in April of 2014. So there's some famous photos of it on Vitalik's back and, you know, people looking at it. Though you look at that code, it wasn't Solidity. I don't know if it was Mutan. It might have been even pre-Mutan. The ether script was what they called it very originally. But yeah, so you weren't working in Berlin or in Amsterdam yourself, were you? You were working remotely. And was it primarily with Jeff's team that you had those interactions or I guess Gav more earlier?

**[17:58] SPEAKER_01:** It was primarily with the GEF team. I was the third employee when I joined the GEF team. It was me, Felix, and Victor. And I did some work with Gavin. And what we did is we would work mostly remotely, and once or twice per year we would go meet everyone together. And whenever I was... I remember one time I went in Berlin. I went to Amsterdam. And then Gavin knew that and he made me do a detour to London just to spend like two hours with him on a cafe where he mostly told me that you're doing everything wrong. You need to do this, this, this, and that. And that was it, right? We used to do that. And sometimes, and I think after London, I went to Zug and I also spent the week in the spaceship. So yes, Spaceship is a very famous place.

**[19:16] SPEAKER_00:** Can you remember who was there, what the context was and what you were doing? I was on the spaceship with Gavin Wood, Fabian and a few other developers. I think Jeff was there briefly also. I don't remember. To be honest, I don't remember the purpose of that. We were developing stuff. We were there just trying out things. Fabiano was already there. That was probably mid-2015. We were testing out how the browser works, how does everything work together. And I think the same trip was when we were all together in Amsterdam, when we had a great presentation, a great demo, in which we had built a browser and then Victor came and had built Swarm and we were all playing around with a chat application running on Swarm on a browser. I would look at that and be like, it's happening, it's really, it's all going to work, right? It was fantastic. And it didn't, of course, work as we expected. Almost everything in that day had to be rebuilt and some of those parts haven't been rebuilt yet. But I think that was the moment where we realized, yeah, this thing is going to happen and it's going to be a wild ride.

**[20:26] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I mean, absolutely. So I was speaking to Christoph Jentz recently, and he was saying, you know, it was the breadth of the vision that really inspired him. You know, it wasn't just, okay, here's Bitcoin with smart contracts. It's like, we're going to rebuild the web. And yeah, you're going to have this trinity. But also, IDEs, we're building an IDE as well with Mix. And yeah, you have got Alice Zero, this crazy kind of low-level UI. But also Aleph One, you know, GUI miner. It's like, yeah, you know, we're just going to build these tools that are going to be very user-facing and it's going to be, you know, enabling anyone really to, you know, to exercise this full set of tools. And yeah, you know, we're going to make a new web. I think you have to put it in context, right?

**[21:26] SPEAKER_01:** If you were around working on something in 2014, it probably meant that you saw the music, you saw software eating up music and turning it digital. You saw software eating up the desktop industry. You saw software eating up, starting to eat up the hotel industry and the taxi industry. all those were the things that were soft that was the software is eating up the word time and like why would you expect that it will stop at money why do you think it will stop at governance and organization so of course at some point software is going to eat money software is going to eat enterprises software is going to eat the very way that we interact with other people and blockchain has its limitation it cannot do a lot of things but it can do money and once you can pay people to do something you can do almost anything right and we like right now I think 10 years later I think crypto has become such a boom and it became in a sense crypto became a boom in financial terms but it didn't impact the society as much as we hoped and now we are living in a much more let's say, cynic society where people look at tech firms and say, I don't trust them. I don't trust Zuckerberg. I don't trust this Altman guy. It's a different context today than we were 10 years ago.

**[23:06] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And I mean, just thinking about timelines. So that that, you know, kind of 2013 era where you were sort of cryptocurrency 2.0. Right. You know, you've had you'd had a few years since since Bitcoin had started. You know, that was just over 10 years after the dotcom boom and bust. So, you know, look at these 10-year cycles. It's like, you know, the web was, you know, starting there in 93, I think. You know, so then you'd had 10 years of like, right, we can actually do things on, you know, on the internet. And, you know, you'd have this big crash and burn. But then 10 years later, you know, it was like that was mature. You know, you'd had... the iPhone and Facebook and, you know, a bunch of other things happening, you know, and people were doing commerce, you know, which 10 years before have been like, what, you're going to pay for something online with your credit card? Like, are you insane? But it had gone through that maturity, you know, and perhaps that's sort of where we are now, right? Is everything that was trying to happen 10 years ago, it kind of works now. I like how...

**[24:21] SPEAKER_01:** If you went to a DevCon five years ago, it would be most would be people with some ideas, some random idea that they want to build. And if you walk around every booth, someone will have an app that you can download that is ready, that has a slick user interface. And that's useful. I just paid for my breakfast using Peanuts. It's an app that helps you pay when people don't accept crypto. And I have to admit a little bit of shame about myself. I don't remember when was the last time I used crypto to pay for something normal. To be honest, I don't think that is the way to define the success of crypto. Do you pay crypto if you're coffee, right? I think a much more interesting measure, especially on Ethereum, is of how many organizations run transparently on chain, right? And I think that is, I still think that governance is one of the best use cases for Ethereum. It's one of the best. success story of Ethereum. We have billions of dollars that are currently managed online, on chain, through a process that doesn't involve banks and that nobody can take the money away. And I think an example, before I give you the microphone, is I'm a founder of ENS. I can get together with Nick today And we have a lot of votes and we still cannot move a single dollar out of the ENS treasury without going through the process of voting in a way that is transparent to anybody, right? There are like $100 million with assets, half a billion dollars in tokens, in the ENS tokens there. And we cannot still move a single dollar without going through the due process. Yeah. No, I mean, that's just wonderful.

**[26:33] SPEAKER_00:** You can't do these things without this technology. So many of our institutions and processes and flows, they are just sort of opaque by design, by definition. They are some proprietary software that's getting run by somebody with a server admin, and everyone is just a user. We've gone to a point where Like, nobody even wants to run software. I mean, I guess this was a challenge on the Mist side as well, is nobody even wanted to run anything on their machine. You know, you saw the growth of cloud. It's like, yeah, nobody wants to have a computer. Nobody wants to have a server. But I think a lot of that is a convenience and a wait thing. And if you are getting new capabilities that are unavailable elsewhere, that's compelling. The UX and experience on apps, they have to be better than what they're doing or give you a new capability. And I kind of think why...

**[27:52] SPEAKER_01:** somewhere like Argentina, you do have so much uses, you know, the status quo is bad. Yeah. I think there's so much still to do, right? I think one of the things, talking with other apps, I heard a lot of them saying, look, the market isn't where it used to be a few years ago, but right now we have more users than we had before, right? Even during the top of the last bubble, we have more users actually using and doing stuff than we had before. And I think that is already fantastic. There's still so much work to do. A few years ago, I happened to be... Somehow I was in a meeting with the mayor of my city, and one of the... People there were like, okay, tell me, how can you use crypto right now to help the city? How can you help it? And I was sort of like, you can do those theoretical things, and he's like, No, tell me, what are they doing that we can do right now? I was like, actually, I didn't have an answer, right? And I started looking for NGOs. I found some great NGOs using crypto. But my point is that I think we still have long ways to go in that sense. My wife says I'm always too optimistic, that my timelines are completely unrealistic. You know, I repeatedly think,

**[29:25] SPEAKER_00:** you know, in about five years, you know, it'll all be solved and, you know, everything will be there. But, yeah, you know, I think it's a long-term thing, but, you know, we are seeing big progress, I would say. I'm kind of still excited. Oh, there's a famous quote that says that we overestimate the amount of change that happens in a few years, but we underestimate the amount of change that happens in,

**[29:52] SPEAKER_01:** 10 years and a decade. So I think I am still optimistic. And I will probably die an optimistic man. Absolutely. Well, thanks so much. We've got to wrap up. Great talking to you. And where can people find you? So I'm Avsa in most networks. I don't use Twitter anymore, a lot anymore. But you can probably find me also on avsa.if.xyz on Blue Sky. And just ping me a message there. OK. Thanks so much. Bye bye.