**[00:02] SPEAKER_01:** Test hello, can you hear me? Hello, hello. We're good, we're both good. Yeah, so hello, I'm Bob Summerwill here with Early Days of Ethereum and talking to Martin Becze. Hello. Was it Becze? We say busy, busy, busy, you know, Becze, but that works. Okay, so yeah, thanks for talking to us. You are a very OG, OG. You're more OG than I am by a couple of years, maybe even. So, I mean, what were you doing prior to Ethereum that led you to Ethereum?

**[00:54] SPEAKER_00:** Ethereum, yeah, that's a good question. So like prior to Ethereum, I had gotten into Bitcoin for a bit, so I was actually at Occupy Wall Street and I set up the Bitcoin donation address for OWS and started doing some development, just regular like web two development. But as my projects developed, I started wondering how to decentralize them, as you naturally do if you've played around with crypto. And you know, I was highly influenced by Bitcoin and BitTorrent, and this is around the time Namecoin also came out. So I was sort of like, I wanted to extend the concepts of Namecoin for my own project, which at the time was a geospatial map thing that displayed what was happening around you. And it was like supposed to be federated, and I wanted to have like a DNS system that we could resolve like a location to like these servers. So called it GoDNS, and it's like looking at how Namecoin implemented it, it's like ah, this is gonna be a pain, I'm gonna have to fork it, you know, rebuild everything, get people to mine it, this is a lot of work. And then as you naturally do, you're like well, this could just be generalized, right? Um, yeah, so you know, this is around the time that Vitalik, he had written some articles I believe in Bitcoin Magazine, but yeah, maybe not on DAOs and DACs. Yes, I was very interested in that too, and I was following that work. And then yeah, I saw the white paper drop, and like yeah, as soon as I saw the white paper drop, I was like yeah, that I need, that's what I need, that makes a lot of sense. Um, so then I started hacking on it because that was before any code, you know, I think was really operable, right? Uh, and I wanted to get my hands onto it. Like I think Alethzero was up, but it was like really rough, yeah. Um, it was up on GitHub, and you know, I was a JavaScript programmer, right? Um, so I was like well, I better implement this in JavaScript because that's what I know. Um, and I really just wanted to get my hands on it and like really understand how it worked, right?

**[03:41] SPEAKER_01:** Right, right. So yeah, we were just looking at some commit first commit dates, so we saw that Joseph Chow had a first commit on node-ethereum in February. Um, and then we found March 2014 as probably the first commit on your side. Um, so yeah, I mean the white paper had come out in November of the previous year, but I was looking, you know, the C++ and Go clients started in very late December. But so yeah, I, you know, a couple of months in, as you say, it's all going to be a bit rough, yeah. Um, and yeah, I mean it wasn't until April that you had the Yellow Paper, you know, that came a little later. Um, you know, that came a little later. I think maybe April-ish was when Geth and cpp-ethereum were maybe, you know, kind of working, talking to each other. Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll have to find the date. There is that I did see like, you know, maybe a tweet of when that was, and I think it was Charles sent a transaction to Gav, all the other way around. Uh, was it GavCoin? Maybe that... Well, here's an interesting one, that GavCoin came later. Well, there was a meetup in London in October 2014 where both Gavin and Jeff were basically doing hey, here's the status of Ethereum and roadmap kind of thing, you know, like an hour long big thorough thing. But what they did at that was gathered GavCoin, which was written in LLL, yeah, and Jeff had JeffCoin, which was written in Mutan, yeah. And they had an on-chain DEX, it was an on-chain order book, really clunky, you know, like here I'm offering, you know, three GavCoin for 10 JeffCoin or what have you. Um, but they demonstrated it there, and you know, did a transaction to put like, you know, an offer into the order book. And then Jeff's like pressing the button to mine a block, and that's really funny, yeah, exchange happened. But uh, but so I mean, were there many people where you were living that were regularly having meetups and being involved?

**[06:09] SPEAKER_00:** No, no, no, not at all. I was living in Indiana, so very rural, and it's just, um, yeah, it was completely, I only connected online, right? Um, and I remained that way for, you know, some time, right? Um, and uh, it wasn't till I don't know, a few months later, um, I was trying to get a job at Ripple. Oh yes, Ripple also. So they had a, I don't remember what it was called, but they were working on a VM, yeah.

**[06:44] SPEAKER_01:** Not yeah, I can't remember yeah. CodeX or something, it wasn't like that, maybe yeah.

**[06:54] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I was like, so I was interested in that, and I had been working on the Ethereum implementing the Ethereum Virtual Machine JavaScript. Um, so they thought that was pretty cool, and they flew me out for an interview right at their office. Um, and that is when I met Vitalik because right, not at Ripple, yes, he just happened to be in San Francisco at the same time, right? Right, and also Joseph Chow, uh, for the first time. Do you know when that might have been? Unfortunately no, I'm really bad with dates, but it was, it was probably, it was definitely past March, right? Like sometime in the summer, right? Um, and then I yeah, it's when I met up with everyone proper, and yeah, Vitalik's like no, just come work on, you know, Ethereum, right? Um, so yeah, that's what I did. So was that working for EF as a contractor? So uh, yes, I was working for EF as a contractor at that point, right?

**[07:57] SPEAKER_01:** Right, right. Um, and yeah, Vitalik notoriously also nearly worked for Ripple, um, but could not get his work permit. So yeah, the world might have looked very, very different, yeah, if Vitalik had joined Ripple as an intern back then rather than, uh, sort of like...

**[08:18] SPEAKER_00:** They failed to get everyone, but if they had, Ripple also may have looked a lot different.

**[08:23] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, some of my very earliest meetups I went to at the start of 2014, it was like here's a demo of Ripple, because it really was a lot less of a tribal setup, right? Like everyone was Bitcoiners because that's all there was, and then it's like oh, there are these other things appearing, and oh yeah, it's a different form of consensus, here's a different flavor, and I was actually interested in there was an early version of Ripple made by this guy in Canada, yeah.

**[08:53] SPEAKER_01:** Ryan Fugger, yes, yeah, who lives in Vancouver, same as me. Oh nice, I've not met him ever though. Um, so I was interested in that version. Like you were able, yeah, I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to actually recall, but you were like able to, it was like debt, you were able to open debt lines to various people, you know? Yeah, and then you know debt would flow through the people, that's right. Uh, it would ripple through, yeah, ripple through. Um, and this was pre-blockchain, it was, is yeah, it was built in like PHP, they had a demo in like PHP. I had signed up on it, uh, I was playing around, I was like offering my services on it, right? Um, but yeah, then so that's how I got interested Ripple. Um, but yeah, then they ended up moving in a slightly different direction, slightly different.

**[09:43] SPEAKER_01:** Yes, I think it was 2004 Ryan's work, yeah, around then, very early, absolutely. Yeah, so so when you know, you were then working full-time on Ethereum, what did you have many collaborators, were many people working on the code together with you?

**[09:58] SPEAKER_00:** Uh, so it was like me and Joseph Chow to start with, and then Joseph Chow eventually went off and he started working on BTC Relay, yeah. I don't know, that's a very interesting project, yeah. So he did that next. Um, but yeah, there was a bunch of people coming in and out. Aaron Davis, right, yeah, helped out quite a bit, right? Um, I was actually looking through the commits and saw he actually committed quite a few things. And then Alex Beregszaszi, right, yeah, became involved, and there were several other people that I don't remember anymore, but those I think were the main characters back then, yeah.

**[10:49] SPEAKER_01:** For Aaron Davis, was that before he was doing MetaMask? Yeah, yeah. So you know, we met, I met Aaron Davis at like, um, Mailchimp, may have been Mailchimp, uh, at a party in SF or hangout, and he started just asking me a ton of questions about Ethereum, and we ended up chatting for a very long time. And then yeah, he was, you know, he was very proficient at JavaScript as well, so he, you know, started hacking a bit on ethereumjs, right?

**[11:23] SPEAKER_01:** Um, something I think some people have asked and I didn't know the answer to is, was there ever a fully syncing JavaScript node? Were you able to keep up at any point?

**[11:41] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, uh, like so yes, um, we did have a syncing full node that worked for a little bit. Um, but yeah, it was difficult. It's still, it like, it's I think it's doable today, like right, it's actually not that bad. Um, I think the thing that, you know, that sort of didn't become our focus though, because it was just like not a huge demand for that, right? Like, you know, I mean Geth and everything else is going to go a lot faster. Um, we were interested in the time of trying to embed a client in a browser, yeah, which is now possible, right, but through the Helios project, right?

**[12:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so um, what's that? I'm sorry, I don't know about Helios.

**[12:37] SPEAKER_00:** Oh, it's a light client from a16z. Oh right, they funded it. It's in Rust, okay, and they compile it to Wasm, right? Um, and it, you know, okay, it kind of cheats, right? It just makes RPC requests, RPCs, but it verifies the Merkle proofs and it verifies consensus, right? So it, um, yeah, it doesn't do the full thing, right? But you know, if since it, I would say it's like a light client, it's definitely a light client that, you know, you have proof with the consensus is correct, and then you have, you know, you get back to the this, you've pulled states, right, that's verified from third party RPCs, right? It's all right, yeah.

**[13:18] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so you attended Devcon 0 in Berlin in November 2014, yes? Yeah, so how was that?

**[13:36] SPEAKER_00:** That was really cool. It was my first time leaving the U.S. No, not quite, it was my first time flying over the ocean, right? I'd been to Canada, oh yes, nice, right, it's all the Niagara Falls and stuff. Um, but yeah, so it's first time in Europe, uh, so it's super exciting. And um, yeah, I stayed in a big Airbnb with Juan Benet and Vitalik, right? Uh, I think Vlad was in the Airbnb as well. Uh, it was super cool, just, uh, you know, see everyone for the first time, right, meet up.

**[14:06] SPEAKER_01:** And um, yeah, because there were a good chunk of people there, I was trying to count, I think, you know, 40 to 50, I think is about the number that were there. Um, pretty much everyone who was working on things. I was looking through, I don't think I could spot really anyone who was still involved who wasn't there. Um, with maybe the yeah, Anthony Di Iorio wasn't there, and he didn't technically leave until the end of 2015, but he was little involved. Um, yeah, I don't have, well actually...

**[14:46] SPEAKER_00:** I had a small contact with Anthony, but um, yeah, I never met him in, I don't think I've ever met him in real life.

**[14:51] SPEAKER_01:** I know what he looks like though, right? Yeah, I have a few times, hoping to talk to him soon. Oh nice. Um, but yeah, from there are missing videos from Devcon 0 which I'm still looking for. There's 10 of them on the playlist on YouTube, there's one further which didn't go in the playlist but is on there, but there seemed to be about 10 missing sessions in there. Okay, can you remember, did you sorry, did you talk at Devcon 0?

**[15:18] SPEAKER_00:** It was there, I did, yeah, and uh, I gave a big presentation, all big. Uh, I had my slides printed off, um, I gave a talk on the ethereumjs, right, and how I architected it.

**[15:35] SPEAKER_01:** Um, yeah, so I think that video is currently lost, and I hope, I hope to recover it. May have never got recorded, I don't know. I think they all did, oh okay. Um, and the other thing Tekcor was saying was that he did interviews with nearly everyone as well. Can you remember, did you talk to Tekcor? Did he go off into some back room and do an interview with him?

**[16:00] SPEAKER_00:** I do not remember that, no. Um, I remember Tekcor though, yeah, and he's still around, absolutely, yeah. So yeah, he was one of the earlier interviewees.

**[16:07] SPEAKER_01:** Um, yeah, I've known Tekcor a long time, and it was funny because, you know, he had the water cooler channel, the Skype water cooler, yes. So when I joined the EF, um, you know, I joined the EF channel and the water cooler, and I thought they were both, you know, like foundation things, but it wasn't, it's basically Tekcor's troll room. Um, so then you've got a bunch of sort of XOR people outside, it was a broader group. Um, Skype are about to delete all their data, by the way. Oh okay. Um, so but you can request a download, so if you want to do that, like do it fast. I don't have access to my Skype account anymore. Well I didn't, I mean you can just log in and do a password recovery thing, and then you can request it. Anyway, so I'm hoping to recover mine, and maybe there's some interesting, you know, tidbits in that water cooler channel. Yeah, definitely, that'd be interesting. Yeah, so then, you know, I guess on into 2015 and through all the PoCs, um, were you generally just, you know, continuing to maintain that as new features and changes came in through the PoCs?

**[17:24] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, um, so we did a lot, like, um, a lot of time was spent on the Virtual Machine, as you can imagine, that's sort of the largest one of the larger components. And I also was working on networking, right. So ethereumjs was a smaller team than everyone else, yes. Um, so yeah, we always lagged behind a bit. Um, but yep, the networking protocols, RLPx, went through several iterations, and then the Virtual Machine went through several iterations. Um, we contributed to the testing, right, and uh, yeah, that was our main focus, right. So yeah, more about tooling use versus straight consensus client.

**[18:18] SPEAKER_01:** Because there are many ethereumjs repos and components, yeah.

**[18:29] SPEAKER_00:** So the original architecture, and it doesn't exist this way more, it's been merged into a mono repo, but originally it was a bunch of small modules. It still is a bunch of small modules, but it's a mono repo, yes, it's much more sensible, yes. Um, but at that time, yeah, small repos for everything. Um, and yeah, the focus was on building reusable components. Um, so the most widely used component or most widely used module was ethereumjs-tx, right, used for creating and signing transactions, right? For, you know, wallets such as MetaMask would use that internally to, right, you know, construct and sign a transaction. Um, then yeah, we had, you know, everything broken out, so RLP for serialization, the networking libraries, the Virtual Machine proper, some of the high level ones. And yeah, so the fun thing about ethereumjs was that I tried to make these modules very approachable and easy to use, right? So, you know, people did stuff like write a DHT scraper with it to, you know, see all the nodes, right, what version they're running, and things like that of that nature, yeah.

**[19:53] SPEAKER_01:** Great, great. So do you have memories of launch day? Where were you on that day? How did that play out?

**[20:02] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, that was just like, I think I was hacking away somewhere. I don't think I was anywhere special, though. It was just sort of like another day for me, right?

**[20:15] SPEAKER_01:** You weren't in a room with people, no, watching the screen with bated breath?

**[20:21] SPEAKER_00:** No, no, I wasn't. It wasn't really, yeah, I was just like yeah, I'll just keep coding, you know, type of thing. Because there were a bunch of them were in the Berlin office together, there's a few photos of that. Yeah, I wasn't there in the Berlin office for that, unfortunately. I don't remember where I was, but yeah.

**[20:51] SPEAKER_01:** Um, did you do any mining at any point?

**[20:54] SPEAKER_00:** No, no. Um, I was too nomadic, nomadic, you got the place to put the hardware, yes. I never had a storage place for, no, no.

**[21:05] SPEAKER_01:** So then I guess, you know, through 2015, probably the next big piece was Devcon 1. What did you attend Devcon 1 in? Yeah, London. I slept in a closet, that's my big Harry Potter memory from Devcon 1, yep.

**[21:13] SPEAKER_00:** So I gave a talk at Devcon 1, right, also on ethereumjs, right, surprisingly.

**[21:38] SPEAKER_01:** Right. Um, so I mean, something somebody pointed out recently was like, if you look at the talks at Devcon 1, it's like everything, like there were so many different talks on so many different ideas and concepts, you know, many of which foreshadowing things which are, you know, pretty big today, but probably nearly all of it was like 10 years too early.

**[22:04] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, exactly, yeah. We had a lot of, there's just so many layers that needed to be built. Obviously when you start off, you see this thing I can do this, you don't fully understand all the layers that need to be created for that. That's a hard problem, though, and I think we're still probably catching up to some of the original use cases that were envisioned.

**[22:04] SPEAKER_01:** Um, I was mentioning this to someone last night, and he was saying I think it's maybe another five or 10 years from here before, you know, all of this stuff is, you know, in a viable kind of state. Yeah, it's a lot more work than perhaps we envisaged at the start. Yeah, it sounds so easy when you start, but yeah, it is hard. Um, Zolt was saying, I think when he joined the Geth team, he, you know, was thinking this would, you know, like be six months, 12 months kind of thing to work on. Slightly longer, I guess. And yeah, he asked Jeff, so you know, how long do you think for, you know, for all of these pieces, you know, Alethzero and Mix and Mist and Proof of Stake and Sharding? Yeah, and Jeff said maybe about seven months or a little more. That's hilarious.

**[24:00] SPEAKER_00:** So it was a little more, yeah, slightly a little bit more, yeah. I mean, I had that same delusion, because the very first thing I was doing was doing ARM Linux cross builds of the C++ client to try and run it on my smartwatch, okay? Really, with the thought that like client was close, right? So we'll just do the porting of the full clients, and then, you know, the LES support will drop in, you know, in a few months, and you know, we can run a full node or a, you know, a good enough light load node on a watch or everywhere. It's just like this is going to be everywhere, right? Every computing device, every router, just, you know, it will, it'll just pop in, you know, it'll just be another protocol like TCP/IP, you know, it'll be in the Linux kernel, it'll just be like another thing, another service.

**[24:29] SPEAKER_01:** Hey, it definitely has a ways to go before Linus merges that, yes, yes, I think. Yeah. Um, so I would still like, I would think it would be really cool, though, if someone built like a file system interface for Ethereum, where like, you know, you could like CD into a folder with all the blocks, and, you know, apps right into a particular block and see a list of transactions, etc., you know, kind of like a Plan 9 like. So you did a talk on this theme in Seattle?

**[24:39] SPEAKER_00:** Um, there was a meetup with yourselves, uh, like the Kenny Rowe, um, some of the DappSys people, I think Aaron Davis as well, yeah. I think Aaron Davis was there, Juan from IPFS was definitely there, yes, he was. I think David Diaz was there. Into the Merkle Forest was one of the talks, and I think yours was like Planetary OS?

**[24:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it was Interplanetary Operating System, there we go.

**[25:00] SPEAKER_00:** There we go. It was a fun talk, that's it, Merkle computing, yeah, can still happen, yeah. Yeah, and there's no like technical reason, like, um, you can't do those things, it's just, uh, you know, layers need to be built.

**[25:14] SPEAKER_01:** Um, yeah, absolutely. So we're getting the Oscars style music coming on. Um, I'm gonna have to have a wrap up, all right. I did intend to talk about eWASM and things, but maybe that's for another time. Sounds good. Okay, so yeah, we're up to the end of 2015, nice. Okay, thanks so much, man.

**[25:34] SPEAKER_00:** Yep, thank you, Bob.