**[00:01] SPEAKER_01:** So hello hello Bob. So yes I'm Bob Summerwill recording here at Devcon Prague for Early Days of Ethereum and I have here Jakub. Good enough good enough yes there you go. So so yeah we've known each other about three years or so now. I think we did meet in Bogota for Devcon 6 for the first time where you introduced yourself. I was not aware of your background and role but yeah specifically you were an intern at Dev in Berlin in late 2015 and you also attended Devcon 1. So how did you come to be involved with Ethereum at that time?

**[00:54] SPEAKER_00:** Oh yeah thank you for the intro and good question. Yeah it was in Bogota. I think I knew about you or of you for longer than since then but yeah I think you were chatting with someone and talking about Florian Glatz maybe and talking about the old days and I just jumped in because I know Florian and found out that we have a shared interest in the old days of Ethereum.

And yeah I did my internship working on the Python client back starting September or August 2015 I think. It was like maybe August to December. Yeah it was August to December. It was a couple of weeks after mainnet launched and the first week I was there was when there was like the first big fork where the Go client forked from the C++ and Python client. There was a chain split on mainnet yes and it happened I think the second day I was there. And that was the same day that there was a meetup planned in the office right. So everything was extremely chaotic and people arrived at the office for the meetup and nothing happened for a good amount of time. And eventually I was just sitting there in the corner working and I was like no we can't do this because there's so many people who are just looking some started leaving so I kind of ad hoc jumped in and gave a presentation on Ethereum back then that I had given a couple of weeks before back in Copenhagen.

And prior to your internship yeah I gave the presentation prior to my internship because I started a Copenhagen Ethereum meetup group. Oh goodness so when do you think that started. I know exactly when it started it started on the 14th of July 2015. Right right and the reason I got into Ethereum was I was studying computer science okay and I knew about Bitcoin and thought it would be interesting to write my bachelor thesis on Bitcoin.

**[02:52] SPEAKER_01:** So this was an internship while you were still doing an undergraduate. It was actually an internship.

**[02:56] SPEAKER_00:** That I got because I wrote my bachelor thesis on Ethereum in the spring of 2015. So you had graduated yeah but just a bachelor right and because the ecosystem so to speak was so small back then right right. We were in contact with the Ethereum Foundation during the internship like right right I mean I think I opened my first issue in March 2015 right to like the C++ client or something like that okay. So so yeah I actually I think I've known of Ethereum since end of 2014 but anyway yeah yeah. We wrote this bachelor thesis me and two of my friends and we sent we shared it with the Foundation and then we got offered internships right and I was the only one like I was tired of studying already only after a bachelor and the other two guys wanted to continue so I was like okay I'm gonna do this. And a couple weeks later I moved to Berlin to do my internship working on the Python client right right. And yeah that was a very interesting time like thinking back now I'm sad I didn't write down more things or take more pictures or appreciate some of the things a little bit more but I also had no idea that things would get as big as they are right yeah but yeah I enjoyed it a lot.

**[04:22] SPEAKER_01:** So I mean it was primarily C++ development under Gav that was happening in that office right but but also Felix Lange I know was there on the Geth team yeah and then some.

**[04:33] SPEAKER_00:** Different people and then some Python. Tim Hughes I think he was doing Go stuff. And yeah the Solidity team was also there I think they were under the C++ team that's right yeah but they were there and Remix as well well Mix sorry at the time yeah yeah. And I also remember the Mist I guess at least Fabian Vogelsteller was also around so there was a good amount of different yeah people around. And also quite often people would come and visit from yeah like other places I remember a couple of times Christoph Jentzsch came to visit yeah. There was one time where I think he arrived at midnight or something like that and there were no one else at the office yeah I was doing my internship and I think he wrote like late afternoon he wrote on the Skype channel if there would be someone around and that he was a little bit delayed or whatever right right. So I was just like oh it's fine I had nothing to do in Berlin anyway I had like the smallest room just like a small room with a bed nothing else basically yeah so I enjoyed spending a lot of time in the office and I actually had like I would usually just stay in the office yeah and then just go home and sleep because the office was quite nice right right. So yeah I had one night where I think I let him into the office at midnight and we had a little bit of a chat I got to know him right he told me about all the testing he was doing and how they were testing right it was quite interesting and that's cross client testing as well wasn't it right yeah if I remember correctly like he was building a lot of like just JSON data that they.

**[06:10] SPEAKER_01:** Fit to the client and that was from the C++ client I know that that CPP Ethereum was leading and the tests were generated from that but then running those against the Python and and Geth.

**[06:22] SPEAKER_00:** Clients probably yeah that sounds about right but yeah I have there are a lot of small stories though like we you told me we don't have too much time and I'll try to keep it short but yeah. I would say if I think back to like the most interesting things that happened it was like of course being lucky enough to participate at Devcon 1 right yeah and also experience the kind of split that was taking place at this point in time because the Foundation I think almost ran out of money and yeah that's right the C++ team was kind of cut off and you also.

**[07:04] SPEAKER_01:** So you also had you know Ming Chan her first official date was first of August of 2015 so yeah you basically have those kind of cost cutting measures coming in quite fast of looking at the spend where you know it had been going for a year it was it was the July of the previous year that the Foundation had been formed and you had the crowd sale but like nearly all of.

**[07:28] SPEAKER_00:** The money was gone yeah I think that was also maybe not the most responsible usage of money but also the Bitcoin price was doing really poorly yeah that's right the Ether price itself was also yeah I think it dipped below the the pre-sale price at some point and it's right like September year in and you've had no accumulation yeah. But yeah I didn't have any interactions with Ming back then. So maybe actually one thing I just remembered now I was actually supposed to have done my internship on the C++ team in London but oh yeah right yeah a couple of weeks before that I was told sorry we can't do it anyway because like we don't have the money anymore.

**[08:12] SPEAKER_01:** Right well because they they were getting very rapidly the funding or even even shut down entirely I.

**[08:17] SPEAKER_00:** Think yeah probably already or that was coming. Yeah so that's why it ended up being the Python team instead because there was some budget but yeah like sitting as the only person working on the Python client in that office in my small corner I had a lot of fun kind of following how people came and went and went into Gavin's office and had a chat there with him and Yoichi or whatever and I didn't really know in the beginning what was going on until I was also asked if I if I wanted to come in and talk and it was basically like presenting ideas of like what would happen next with the C++ team and right to consider joining there or whatever.

**[09:06] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah so that was sort of the pre pre formation of what became Ethcore later Parity yeah I think so.

**[09:18] SPEAKER_00:** That so I was witnessing that without knowing what was going on yeah I had no insight into like the finances of the Foundation or anything like that I only found out about most of those things later.

**[09:32] SPEAKER_01:** But so yeah I mean maybe interesting to see yeah yeah so I mean let maybe let's let's talk about Devcon 1 so you'd have this so the first Devcon was Devcon 0 which happened in November 2014 before your time which was the closed you know closed event mainly Ethereum Foundation people but some broader ecosystem people but then Devcon 1 happened in November 2015 in London. It had got announced early in the year and got cancelled because of this funding squeeze but then ConsenSys basically stepped up and filled that funding gap and and did some organizing so that was in November of that year I was not present myself that I couldn't afford to go or whatever at the time but I watched a lot of the livestream but you know that was a really very seminal conference so how how was that?

**[10:34] SPEAKER_00:** It was for me it was amazing like I've never been good at like sitting still on a chair for a long period of time but there I was at every talk from the beginning in the morning until the end I think I missed one talk because I had to go catch my flight to go back on the last day or like but it was I was just sitting there and sucking up all of these ideas and visions and it was really I think before that I had an idea that I thought it would be interesting to continue working with Ethereum or in the Ethereum space but after Devcon 1 I was like I have to do this like there's no other way for me I'm not going back to the university I'm not going to do anything else this is what I'm gonna do because it was a full day or three full days of just sitting there and people presenting their ideas.

I remember clearly like there was like Maker was presented like I was like okay we did like stablecoins like it was amazing. I think Fabian and Vitalik and Alex van de Sande and some other people presented the ERC-20 token standard or the early version of it which yeah okay this has also this is such a big part of Ethereum now. I think maybe Gnosis I'm not sure actually. And of course the project I was working on the people there like we were presenting the Raiden Network which got a lot of very good feedback as well. So it was it was so Hydrachain as well right yeah I was not so sold on Hydrachain back then because it was like aimed at at like yeah one of the very first permissioned Ethereum exactly it was like a round robin kind of algorithm and now it seems like something people would actually have used these days so yeah only 10 years too early.

But back to to Devcon 1 I was just thinking about it after our conversation last night yeah that Devcon 1 it was just about the technology like I think maybe there were three booths or something like that right a couple of stickers like I barely remember I just remember yeah Augur what was the name of the project BlockApps Strato yeah BlockApps I remember they had like a small booth I think right right some stickers yeah very sad that I lost that sticker right but other than that it was just like yeah just people there was one stage and everyone was like in the same room more yes. And in the evenings yeah people would go out go out for dinner maybe but there was not a single side event there was not a single party glory days it was just dinners and a couple of shepherd's pies somewhere right. And that was kind of fun like you got to know people really really well and yeah it was it was really just the golden days I felt like there was yeah so many inspired people and ideas and people only talked about tech I think there was like one a little bit weird product hype talk with a guy who had a t-shirt gun on the stage this like free my bank right who had like a very different energy than everybody else it felt like he was the only one who actually knew how to give a talk and how to actually sell and back then I thought it was way too much but now now it's basically what everyone else is that's right and the quality of slides was so bad as well it's right to look back.

But yeah I was thinking about that and then I was comparing with let's say Devcon 2 right I think at Devcon 2 there was maybe like a couple of parties I think ConsenSys had like a yeah bar somewhere where we would usually go it was still not that big yeah only one stage I think at Devcon 2 there was just one main stage yeah quite quite doable. And then I think at Devcon 3 in Cancun that was where you could really feel okay now there's a lot of money in this space because like there were parties right and left and yeah okay the rest is history right that's right it's been quite crazy to see this development as well of like measuring on the amount of events and parties at the different Devcons how how popular things got but absolutely yeah for for me the Devcon 1 is like one of my best memories of these 10 years simply because it was just so inspiring and and motivating I would say and a lot of the people you have on your list were around there like yeah yeah it's it's quite quite cool and I actually recently found out that someone I got to know or a couple of years ago only who's also doing some cool stuff he actually was around there like we didn't meet each other I didn't know him I only found out like two years ago but he had also and he said he didn't see almost any talks because he was sitting in the back trying to get LES or the Geth client to run on his machine or something like that because it was not easy back then no no it took days even if you had the devs available right next to you absolutely it wasn't easy no.

So yeah I think that's mainly what I have to like share without it going into too much detail about about things but well thanks so much yeah you're very welcome great chatting always yeah.

**[15:50] SPEAKER_01:** Okay okay all the very best thank you you too.