**[00:01] SPEAKER_01:** So hello hello Bob. Yes, I'm Bob Summerwill recording here at DevCon Prague for Early Days of Ethereum. And I have here Jakub. We've known each other about three years or so now. I think we did meet in Bogota for DevCon 6 for the first time where you introduced yourself. I was not aware of your background and role, but specifically, you were an intern at Ethereum in Berlin in late 2015 and you also attended DevCon One. So how did you come to be involved with Ethereum at that time?

**[00:54] SPEAKER_00:** Oh yeah, thank you for the intro and good question. It was in Bogota. I think I knew about you or of you for longer than since then. Yeah, I think you were chatting with someone and talking about Florian Glatz maybe and talking about the old days. I just jumped in because I know Florian and found out that we have a shared interest in the old days of Ethereum. I did my internship working on the Python client back starting September or August 2015. It was like maybe August to December. It was a couple of weeks after Mainnet launched. The first week I was there was when there was the first big fork where the Go client forked from the C++ and Python client. There was a chain split on Mainnet. It happened I think the second day I was there. That was the same day that there was a meetup planned in the office.

Everything was extremely chaotic and people arrived at the office for the meetup and nothing happened for a good amount of time. Eventually, I was just sitting there in the corner working and I was like, we can't do this because there's so many people who are just looking, some started leaving. So I kind of ad hoc jumped in and gave a presentation on Ethereum back then that I had given a couple of weeks before back in Copenhagen prior to my internship. I gave the presentation prior to my internship because I started a Copenhagen Ethereum meetup group.

It started on the 14th of July 2015. The reason I got into Ethereum was I was studying computer science and I knew about Bitcoin and thought it would be interesting to write my bachelor thesis on Bitcoin.

**[02:52] SPEAKER_01:** So this was an internship while you were still doing undergraduate?

**[02:56] SPEAKER_00:** It was actually an internship that I got because I wrote my bachelor thesis on Ethereum in the spring of 2015. I had graduated but just with a bachelor. Because the ecosystem was so small back then, we were in contact with the Ethereum Foundation during the internship. I think I opened my first issue in March 2015 to the C++ client or something like that.

I've known of Ethereum since the end of 2014. We wrote this bachelor thesis, me and two of my friends, and we shared it with the foundation. Then we got offered internships. I was the only one who was tired of studying already after a bachelor, and the other two guys wanted to continue. So I was like, I'm going to do this. A couple of weeks later, I moved to Berlin to do my internship working on the Python client.

That was a very interesting time. Thinking back now, I'm sad I didn't write down more things or take more pictures or appreciate some of the things a little bit more. But I also had no idea that things would get as big as they are now. I enjoyed it a lot.

**[04:22] SPEAKER_01:** It was primarily C++ development under Gavin that was happening in that office, right? But also Felix Lange was there on the Go team and some different people. And then the Python team, Simon Johnson, was doing Ghost stuff. The Solidity team was also there under the C++ team. Remix, Mix at the time, and Mist, Fabian Vogelsteller was also around. There was a good amount of different people around. Quite often people would come and visit from other places. I remember a couple of times Christoph Jentzsch came to visit. There was one time where he arrived at midnight or something like that and there was no one else at the office. I was doing my internship and he wrote on the Skype channel if there would be someone around and that he was a little bit delayed. So I was just like, it's fine, I had nothing to do in Berlin anyway. I had the smallest room with a bed, nothing else.

I enjoyed spending a lot of time in the office and usually just stayed there and went home to sleep because the office was quite nice. I had one night where I left him into the office at midnight and we had a little bit of a chat. I got to know him and he told me about all the testing he was doing. It was quite interesting, cross-client testing as well.

**[06:10] SPEAKER_01:** Cpp-ethereum was leading and the tests were generated from that but then running those against the Python and Geth clients, probably.

**[06:22] SPEAKER_00:** That sounds about right. There are a lot of small stories though. If I think back to the most interesting things that happened, it was being lucky enough to participate at DevCon One and also experience the split that was taking place at this point in time. The foundation almost ran out of money and the C++ team was kind of cut off.

**[07:04] SPEAKER_01:** Ming Chan's first official date was the first of August 2015. So you basically have those kind of cost-cutting measures coming in quite fast of looking at the spend where it had been going for a year. It was the July of the previous year that the foundation had been formed and you had the crowdsale, but nearly all of the money was gone.

**[07:28] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it was also maybe not the most responsible usage of money. The Bitcoin price was doing really poorly and the Ether price itself dipped below the presale price at some point in September. I didn't have any interactions with Ming back then. One thing I just remembered now, I was actually supposed to have done my internship on the C++ team in London. A couple of weeks before that, I was told sorry we can't do it because we don't have the money anymore.

**[08:12] SPEAKER_01:** Right, because they were getting very rapidly defunded or even shut down entirely.

**[08:17] SPEAKER_00:** So that's why it ended up being the Python team instead because there was some budget. Sitting as the only person working on the Python client in that office in my small corner, I had a lot of fun following how people came and went into Gavin's office and had a chat there with him and Vitalik or whoever. I didn't really know in the beginning what was going on until I was also asked if I wanted to come in and talk. It was basically presenting ideas of what would happen next with the C++ team and considering joining there or whatever.

**[09:06] SPEAKER_01:** That was sort of the pre-formation of what became F Core later Parity.

**[09:18] SPEAKER_00:** I was witnessing that without knowing what was going on. I had no insight into the finances of the foundation or anything like that. I only found out about most of those things later.

**[09:32] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe interesting to see. Let's talk about DevCon One. The first DevCon was DevCon Zero which happened in November 2014 before your time, which was the closed event mainly Ethereum Foundation people but some broader ecosystem people. DevCon One happened in November 2015 in London. It had been announced early in the year and got cancelled because of this funding squeeze. Then Consensus stepped up and filled that funding gap and did some organizing. That was in November of that year. I was not present myself, I couldn't afford to go, but I watched a lot of the livestream. That was a really seminal conference. How was that?

**[10:34] SPEAKER_00:** For me, it was amazing. I've never been good at sitting still on a chair for a long period of time, but there I was at every talk from the beginning in the morning until the end. I missed one talk because I had to go catch my flight to go back on the last day. I was just sitting there and sucking up all of these ideas and visions. Before that, I had an idea that it would be interesting to continue working with Ethereum or in the Ethereum space. After DevCon One, I was like, I have to do this, there's no other way for me. I'm not going back to university, I'm not going to do anything else. This is what I'm going to do because it was three full days of sitting there and people presenting their ideas.

I remember clearly Maker was presented and I was like, okay, we have stablecoins. Fabian Vogelsteller and Alex Van de Sande and some other people presented the ERC-20 token standard or the early version of it, which is such a big part of Ethereum now. The project I was working on, Radon Network, got a lot of very good feedback as well. Hydrochain as well, I was not so sold on Hydrochain back then because it was aimed at one of the very first permissioned Ethereum chains, a round-robin kind of algorithm. Now it seems like something people would actually have used these days, 10 years too early.

Back to DevCon One, it was just about the technology. There were maybe three booths or something, a couple of stickers. BlockApps Stratos had a small booth, some stickers. Other than that, it was just people, one stage, everyone in the same room. In the evenings, people would go out for dinner, maybe, but there was not a single side event, not a single party. It was just dinners and a couple of shepherd's pies somewhere. That was kind of fun, you got to know people really well. It was the golden days, so many inspired people and ideas. People only talked about tech.

There was one weird product hype talk with a guy who had a T-shirt gun on stage, Free My Bunk, who had a very different energy than everybody else. He felt like the only one who actually knew how to give a talk and how to sell. But now it's basically what everyone else is. The quality of slides was so bad to look back. I was comparing with DevCon 2. At DevCon 2 there was maybe a couple of parties, Consensus had a bar somewhere where we would usually go. It was still not that big, only one main stage. Then at DevCon 3 in Cancun, that was where you could really feel okay, now there's a lot of money in this space because there were parties right and left. The rest is history. It's been quite crazy to see this development as well of measuring on the amount of events and parties at the different DevCons how popular things got.

For me, DevCon One is one of my best memories of these 10 years simply because it was so inspiring and motivating. A lot of the people you have on your list were around there. I recently found out that someone I got to know a couple of years ago who's also doing some cool stuff was actually around there. We didn't meet each other, I didn't know him, I only found out two years ago, but he had also been there. He said he didn't see almost any talks because he was sitting in the back trying to get geth client to run on his machine or something because it was not easy back then. It took days even if you had the devs available next to you. So yeah, that's mainly what I have to share without going into too much detail.

**[15:50] SPEAKER_01:** Okay, all the very best. Thank you.