**[00:00] SPEAKER_04:** All righty, so we're on. Thanks. So my name is Karen James Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James Hermosdia and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called Block Apps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened. And so we wanted to kind of, you know, get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity. And here we are. So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we, you know, we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a, you know, current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. All righty. So let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad. of Bitcoin and I distinctly remember it being three dollars down from a recent peak of 14 or 15 dollars I thought it was interesting and you know looked into it a little bit I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution you know I'd If you asked me then, I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

**[02:24] SPEAKER_01:** That said, let me hand the question over to Jim. When were you first aware of Bitcoin? Aware is different than like interested in fact like I I don't know I was like I came from an academic background so I'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it but but I was like a little bit too above all that like oh that's like a money thing I'm not interested in that money world so uh uh really no like the interest came from when you reached out to Steve who was a uh an old friend of mine and that uh um Kieran had been following his blog and and uh Steve called me up and he's like uh this guy Kieran just called me up and you you have to go look at this Ethereum thing and so uh at first I was like uh yeah you know I'm not interested in all this this uh uh fake money thing and I went and I read the white paper. And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about like a banking or something. This is about incentivization on the internet. And that drew me in. And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they, and at the time it was a test net.

**[03:45] SPEAKER_04:** Uh, and that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there. So well, I don't know, let me pass it on to Victor. Yeah, let's uh Jim will pick that up. I'm trying a little bit to stay chronological. So I, you know, I was 2010 2011 sounds like same time frame for you. I think we'll pull back in a question or two right to that era. Um, and we'll talk in more detail. Uh, but let's let's hold on it for just a moment. Uh, Vic, do you want to take it?

**[04:14] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think I became aware of it um around the same time as you. I was I was um you know doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time and I I felt really disconnected from North America. So I became sort of an early fan of podcasts and one of the big podcast networks was this thing called TWiT that was like all technical podcasts and one of the podcasts I really loved was this podcast Security Now which went really deep into these kind of like security technical kind of things and he did like a couple episodes of Bitcoin and I was like you know really really fascinated by it but mostly from a technical angle like and even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it didn't get any Bitcoin or if I did uh I think the rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office. And I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, we can transfer money and like it's basically free internet magic money and I was like I I honestly was kind of repelled by that like that kind of seemed like too nutty even for me at the time. Did we all hate it before we liked it?

**[05:44] SPEAKER_04:** I never hated it. I was sort of just like not that interested. I guess um you know I think um you know from the East Coast um the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable. I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like...

**[06:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, you know, after your physics days, you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like like I guess I didn't hate it. I just felt I was too good for it. But I think I found the like...

**[06:21] SPEAKER_00:** Like everyone talked about it. So I was fascinated by the technical aspect like I said like you know and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software but I think the part that kind of turned me off about it was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs they're like they were like kind of fanatical like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off. I would say.

**[06:52] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored. Crypto. Some of them weighed in on it. But yeah, I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something. It's just like the most horsepower wins from a you know intellectual perspective and I guess the hardest working horsepower. Very few of those people got interested. Um, and in uh you know crypto blockchain. A few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones. Um, as far as uh you know compared to younger ones like folks like Dan Boneh, etc. But yeah, I think I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess.

**[08:10] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days was sketchy because most of the use cases that like I thought the technology was fascinating but whenever I would ask about you know I'm a product guy so I would always ask like what's the use case why would you use it and people would describe you know things to circumvent existing laws like the big one in China that I remember is like oh I can transfer money and bypass you know foreign exchange rules and stuff and I was like is that legal like no one would you know...

**[08:42] SPEAKER_01:** Mention anything afterwards basically. Yeah, well, I got over feeling uh too good for it. I'll tell you that. Yeah, and we all did. Yeah.

**[08:55] SPEAKER_04:** I want to touch on the other, the big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple of times, was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox was that first big price run up. I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks to 1200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person. To some extent, consumer interest tracks with the price. And people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably, the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top, you know. And whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side. And sort of crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound. But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew who were not... quite crypto savvy in the industry etc were suddenly paying attention when Mt.

**[10:24] SPEAKER_01:** Gox was happening. Just getting into things. I I what year was it? Was it 2015? 2014? 2014? Probably right. I think Mt. Gox was 13. Let me check. Yeah, okay, 13. Yeah, okay. So that was a little before, but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time. Um, uh, I was new enough to it that it was still I was observing it as a you know like a third party. You know, it was it was interesting to me, but but yeah, I think I I spent a little time to understand what because you know the newspaper coverage like usual was terrible about it. They didn't explain what was going on. So I spent a little time to understand that yes, there was a problem, but no, it had nothing to do with blockchain. It was uh it was oh, there's...

**[11:12] SPEAKER_04:** I think you're right. So the run up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14. It looks like. Okay, so it officially shuttered February 2014, though. And the big, the 1200 that I remember was like November 2013. It looks like when did the hack happen? December? Oh, I think right here. Okay, okay, yeah, right there. Yeah.

**[11:38] SPEAKER_03:** So, yeah, interesting times for sure.

**[11:41] SPEAKER_00:** Because I think about Mt. Gox and, oh, what was... I'm blanking right now. What was the name of that, you know, dark web marketplace that used...

**[11:50] SPEAKER_03:** Silk Road.

**[11:51] SPEAKER_00:** Silk Road, yeah. Like, I think it's... those were kind of intertwined in those early days. Right? So I remember like even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about and I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there. Like you know lots of illicit stuff was a list listed there. You know...

**[12:12] SPEAKER_04:** That's wow. You know, I think I never did that. I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road. Um, just heard about it at like... I had a Mt. Gox account. Um, and some others. There was a period where like uh Dwolla was doing crypto stuff. Um, and then I think they stopped. Um, and I believe they're still around as like a payment API company. Um, but um, yeah, because I really use them and some others.

**[12:38] SPEAKER_00:** I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt. Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other. And that was like the sort of like you know as we've as you mentioned like the first kind of iteration of like oh you know all crypto and blockchain is dead now and then it just keeps coming back. Right?

**[12:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it sure does. Um, okay, there's a little bit of bias in the news on how they cover um problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional uh world. Like if there's if there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, that means that like it might mean that we need a little more regulation or something. But that that was a bad person. So it's always like uh much more tied into you know that the price of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens. But you don't see like, e.g., crashing because like somebody commits fraud somewhere. I mean, I guess fraud's big enough, but yeah, I agreed. Um, just a segue. Yeah.

**[13:50] SPEAKER_04:** John Coleman, SIG way and quickly. Can you guys go into how you met? Because you guys met first, and then we can do the whole how we all do.

**[13:57] SPEAKER_00:** Do I do I want to start, or do you want to start?

**[14:00] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, I'll start. And I'll pass it over. I uh actually, so I had uh uh back in the 90s, I was an academia and in the aughts, I was in the startup world. And I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups and I had uh two sons who were in the our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs. And we said, hey, let's just be crazy right now. And let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China. And actually put them in a school there. So I called around some various friends and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing and he says I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys. So in fact, let me pass it over to you right now and you can...

**[14:58] SPEAKER_00:** Well, yeah, and so the VC um you know who we're still friends with her G, like, he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said like oh I have this brilliant CTO and he says he's going to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is. So you know, don't put all your eggs in this basket. But then we started talking that summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every another advantage of us both uh uh being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And and I remember like You know, like we were kind of talking over the summer and I was like, you know, seeing how serious you were about coming. And and at one point you said, OK, look, if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come and take the job to Beijing. And I went to the school that my kids went to, which and said like you know can you make space for um you know two foreign kids? This international program they said yes if you can, but the kids have to be here the first day of school. And first day of school was two weeks from that conversation. So I called him up and said look I can do it...

**[16:14] SPEAKER_01:** You know I can guarantee a place for them but you have to be here on this day. And to my shock he actually said yes and he like talked to his house and like everything in the house in like I think we had 12 days to be in school and we probably were had the had to have the house back within like like I don't know less than a week. So that was a crazy week. But but uh Victor was a great help in like we were going to a country we'd never been to before didn't know much about. Victor had also uh moved to Asia a few years earlier and so he had sort of scoped out everything and he knew he knew where the good schools were. He knew where the good apartment buildings were. Helped us out just tremendously. So yeah, it was a great experience. It was an exciting time to be in China. Was right around the first Olympics. You know...

**[17:02] SPEAKER_00:** Like it was right around that the Beijing Olympics and so it's a really exciting time. But yeah, you wound up staying for about 18 months. Right in total? And um, a little less, but yeah, it was it was over a year. Yeah, and then we just kept in touch from there. Like we loved working together. Yeah, it was great. What year did you arrive? Um, what was this rough time? Yeah, who are you asking? Because it was different. Uh, you, Jim.

**[17:26] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, 2011. 2011 summer. We're driving all over the country. 2011 September, August. I can't remember we were we were in Beijing. Gotcha. Gotcha, very cool. And so then you're back end of 2012 or early 2013. Something like that. Yeah, we were back at um when did we come back? I guess we were back in the country in 2013, but like January.

**[17:56] SPEAKER_04:** Let me, I'll segue, I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident. Maybe not purely by accident, but basically the... I had passed my qualifying exam, I'm going to say spring 2014 or, you know, maybe May, April or May 2014. So for those who have not aware of how a PhD program works, qualifying exam is like one of the last things you need to do before you just do the research and produce the thesis. So sometimes it's a coursework requirement. Sometimes you need to, you know, translate a work from like an academic work from one language to to another to show proficiency. I think most of them have dropped those requirements at this point. And so, you know, it's a whole bunch of study tense prep at Berkeley. It's a three-hour oral exam with a couple of people from your department and one from an external department. And then they give you a pass or not. I got a pass. Thankfully, it was a. I don't know that it was it was everyone feels bad after their qualifying exam except the people who are really good. Right? Like, and you know, so while I passed it, I it was like you know didn't feel great the at least the rest of that day. Um, but when do you find out the result? Like immediately. Oh, you do. Okay, you put you in the hall and they tell you...

**[19:38] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, okay. That's good. So you're just like very nervous. I don't know what it was like for you, but for me it was just like three guys I knew and I I was nervous too, but it wasn't like they had to go and like uh you know like calculate numbers or something. They just kind of come out and they're like yeah yeah yeah. Exactly, it was no it was like that. Right? Yeah, it's it's a oral it's...

**[19:58] SPEAKER_04:** Subjective in a sense, but you know there you've got like several of the world's foremost experts you know in some subjects. So they're able to assess whether you understand it enough or not to proceed with research. Um, so anyway, so The qualifying exam led to I needed a short break from math. I was in mathematical physics. And I had almost taken a job working for a data science company that was taking, I can't quite remember, something having to do with Nielsen TV ratings and doing something with the data and maybe selling it back to networks. I can't remember at this time. But it seemed like an okay thing. I also wanted to go back to New York for the summer. I'm from New York. And as with many New Yorkers, it took some time to adapt to the California culture, and I didn't fully do it. I'm prone sometimes to bash the Bay Area, but I still kind of like it there. Yes, Jim's there. I'm in the state of New York at the moment. But but yeah, but I you know I need a little break basically and it ended up um being possible to work on the Ethereum project. Um, so somehow um my you know I guess I'll go into this. Somehow uh my dad Joe Lubin got attached to the project basically because he was always he was tracking Bitcoin blockchain for a long time. Um, he had a CS background plus the financial background and ran a hedge fund for a number of years. And so it's just kind of always watching technological innovations in financial services. And I guess always had a little bit of the blockchain philosophical character in that, you know, let's say pro-freedom, a little bit of a libertarian streak kind of thing. And I believe he happened to just be visiting our families. He's from Toronto. A lot of blockchain people in Toronto for one reason or another. And he went, I believe, to it might have been a Bitcoin meetup at that time, or it might have been the first Ethereum meetup. But this would have been January, February, 2014, I believe. And Vitalik was speaking there. And like everyone around that time where You see Vitalik speak about something. You got really excited, right? And so he actually got ready to start helping out the project right away. He actually thought for a time that he might be a software developer for the project. And it didn't turn out that way. We can go into it a little bit later. But he started working on it again, let's say February, March. Um, 2014 and so he just sent me the white paper like right after maybe right before my qualifying exam. I got a chance to read it. Um, and it was pretty cool and interesting and new and that was sort of the first time I grasped the potential of technology and it caused me to go back and read the Bitcoin white paper etc and it was sort of exciting enough to work on for that summer basically. So that's how I got into it. Um, And subsequently, Jim alluded to this earlier, I started to work with the project and reached out to Steve Hsu, a great friend of ours, kind of, I don't know, not quite famously brilliant, definitely brilliant, somewhat famous. Uh, super cool guy. Uh, and I've been a long time reader of Steve's blog. He's one of the um few really excellent uh kind of general communicators who's a super technical guy but most people who are really technical in communication have a hard time I don't distilling it for at least kind of a mass market audience. Uh, but Steve is actually good at that. Uh, but with nuanced coverage of technical topics, so anyway, um, caught up with Steve, um, and that takes us to, um, Steve forwarding on the Ethereum white paper to Jim. And I believe the first time I spoke to Steve, I was in New York, but was just about to go back to the Bay Area. So that takes us to maybe June, July 2014. And maybe I came back in August or something like that. And it turned out that Jim was there in Hayward and we got to meet up.

**[24:58] SPEAKER_01:** What do you really think? August 2014? September something like that? Oh, it was around then because uh um also ironically I was driving across the country that summer too and uh it was right after I came back. That's all your big life changes are related to some cross country you do a soul searching you do a literal search. Well, see I was in Montana and then I was back in the Bay Area and then we talked.

**[25:27] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, okay that's cool. How was Montana by the way? Wow, maybe we shouldn't go. Yeah, um, Montana oddly crypto friendly. Yeah, yeah, makes sense. Big sky country, right? Yeah, that's my country. Um, okay, so let me see here. I want to um I have a couple other 2014 anecdotes that uh you guys may not even know that much about, but maybe we should jump ahead.

**[25:56] SPEAKER_00:** To 2015 and go back. So just before we go past 2014. So I moved back from China um in 2014 and so you know me and Jim were talking about like oh now that we were I was back what kind of project could we do together? So while you had started that conversation, me and Jim were like thinking about okay you know like maybe we could work on the startup together and at some point you forward me the paper as well. So like I think once. So that's that's kind of how I got into it as well. Um.

**[26:31] SPEAKER_04:** I want to give, yeah, I don't want to speak the whole time, but I have some info here that I forget if I told you guys at length. Okay, go for it. In 2014, so basically, I did work on the Ethereum project through a bunch of 2014 projects. As far as tech projects go, it was much more global, a little more European, but you had Canada, you had a bunch of people in Zug, Switzerland, a little bit in Israel in the early days. We worked out of an office, my dad and I, and Guy named Stephen Narayoff, who is now kind of famous. Actually, if you Google the name, it's definitely an interesting and colorful story that I'll go into a little bit. And a guy named Jonathan, whose last name I couldn't find when I was writing this down. But Jonathan's a good guy. And I don't know if they parted ways at some point or how that all happened. So we're working in this office in Times Square and you know really trying to find kind of different ways to advance the project meeting with lots of people. Um, so you know that's when I met um Steve Hsu who introduced me to Jim basically just kind of calling up whoever might be interested. But part of the plans that the Ethereum uh folks had was you know they had the they acknowledged that um There would be a need for kind of ongoing pure research, and then, in addition to more like focused R&D to build the network out. And so Vitalik at some point pended an article about you know 10 hard problems in cryptocurrency, or or something of that nature in which, and I think it was If we went back now, it would look both very insightful and a little bit dated. I'm sure some of them have been solved and some of them may not need to be solved because something else emerged. Basically foresaw that they the the need for you know uh privacy above and beyond pseudonymity for instance. Yeah, or and you know many things with that transition from proof of work to proof of stake or just like energy efficient blockchains which people were talking about at that time. But um My position in academia at that time seemed to be helpful as the blockchain people were just so different from the academia people, despite both of them being really smart groups of people. Blockchain people were not worried about doing things through the proper channels and approval and writing it up the right way and all that sort of thing. Whereas something about academia makes you fearful of being wrong. Um, because you you're wrong enough in public there are kind of consequences for it. Uh, and the kind of I would say the tech attitude in general is like getting something out there you know get it to work basically but get it out and then iterate. Um, and blockchain people had that you know in a extreme and I would say also Ethereum was much more like that than the Bitcoin culture. The Bitcoin culture was like a bunch of practicing but academic cryptographers who never wanted to change anything. Um, and the Ethereum people were more like have like the software and computer science engineering attitude of like well let's get out there let's let's tinker with it let's kind of see what happens and it was good arguments for both especially when we're talking about like a system that custody's whatnot custody's but you know that records a lot of high value ownership interests and allows them to be transferred. Um, But all that is to say, it was useful for the Ethereum Foundation to have someone who was actively in academia to kind of work with and coordinate everything. So we agreed to work on a body called the Cryptocurrency Research Group. And that was composed of sort of myself, Vitalik, and our friend, Aaron Wright. He's since gone on to a number of Web3 projects, but at the time was practicing uh attorney uh but also a professor at Cardozo Law School. Um, and he came to that Times Square office which was you know not the greatest of offices I would I would say and just sort of really leaned in on um Ethereum and kind of helped structure everything. Uh, so that you know it would be kind of the most robust um not just technology but they actually did kind of a quite good job in figuring out uh how to set things up uh that other projects since did you know certainly did not do as good a job. I'll say so you know it was it was funny times. Um, And in 2014, I also got to go to Zug. For those who don't know, the Ethereum Foundation was one of the first to be headquartered in Switzerland. And it was kind of... it's become a very popular choice for crypto foundations. Uh, because I guess the Ethereum Foundation sort of blazed a path. Uh, and okay, funny thing about Switzerland is that the kind of local authorities also just seem like business people like they want to land the future tax revenue and employment and so you can kind of... James Heiting. Once Switzerland is split into some number of cantons, which are like States a little smaller than US States, of course, and so you can kind of go from Canton to Canton, and try to get the best offer, and offer really means like, you know, tax treatment. any kind of grants or just like, you know, and helping get fast answers around legal questions. You know, one of the tough things about the United States is that sometimes you don't know what's allowed. And the Swiss environment, they were fairly clear, you know, about what they wanted for the special tax treatment and, you know, et cetera, et cetera. So we went out and visited Zug. I don't know mid-late summer 2014 and I got to meet um all of the founders of Ethereum at that time. I believe they're kind of eight in total. Um, and you know so I think uh those numbers changed over time though. Yeah, those numbers change. Yes, so well, but but yeah, I think so. I don't exactly know how all of it happened, but you know Vitalik, there's always a global project. Right? So Vitalik would kind of go around the world and evangelize get people excited and they would want to work with the project and so um a bunch of folks got attached to it. Um, And I think obviously it worked, right? But if he were to do it again, I bet he would be a little bit more careful about adding folks to it. Because eight is just like too many. Like if you went to a US venture capitalist with a slide that says eight co-founders and they're not all currently running billion-dollar companies, you'd be just laughed out of the room. And yet, it works. It actually functioned. And the, you know, so kind of the way it broke apart was that there were like the technical element, technical guys. So I think, I don't quite know how this happened, but pretty early on, like Gavin Wood, Jeff Wilkie started, um, building out versions of Ethereum, um, the C++ and Go clients specifically. We'll go into the clients soon. Cause there's good stories there. Um, David Price-It's Alec was building the Python client, they were all working together on technical documentation and the reason that people were building multiple clients was that there was the perception that Bitcoin was controlled and centralized. Because there's only really one definitive client, Bitcoin D. Right? And so there was this kind of huge replication of technical effort like each of them eventually got their own teams. There were JavaScript clients. You know, there's uh you know many of them kind of came out uh later. Um, and I'd say the project. So the project had sort of tech folks and business folks like like any tech project. Didn't really have a nominal CEO at any time. Uh, it was closest to being Charles Hoskinson. So I think at the time I went to Zug, the um leadership looked like On the business side, Charles is the CEO. Amir Chetrit, who is in Israel, he kind of did business development. He's a funny guy. I still see him every once in a while. Joe, my dad, and Anthony D'Onofrio as the other business guys who probably had the most operating experience. And then the tech side was Vitalik, Jeff, Gavin, and then Mihai had sort of done corporate setup. I believe Mihai worked with Vitalik on Bitcoin Magazine. So Vitalik very interesting character where you know most of the time your technical geniuses are not good communicators. Uh, and he was sort of a journalist running Bitcoin Magazine writing a lot of the articles good if he started it or kind of joined it. Um, uh, and you know he would uh he would I think he kind of crowdfunded the articles a little bit like um for you know if I can get a pledge of one Bitcoin I'll write an article about X. You know, and at the time of Bitcoin was inexpensive. Uh, but you know those those values went up and I think it actually ended up being a good funding mechanism. You know, the articles he wrote in the future and it led him to kind of have a sort of impartial thought leader position in addition to his really strong technical ability and the ideas he was generating etc. And I know he had joined a bunch of projects uh early on uh and helped work with them uh like I think Mastercoin was maybe the first colored coin project he did some work on that. So um anyway, so those were the eight at the time. And the there was a meeting for everyone to kind of get on the same page. You know, remote project there was a Slack um people were maybe working a little bit at cross purposes. Lots of infighting. People are stressed. They're trying to deliver on this like awesome concept that Vitalik put out there and then everyone kind of tried to grab ownership of like was there a reason to have all these different clients? You know, in the end empirically it worked. Right? But a little bit of it was a I want you know Ethereum to be mine sort of thing. Um, and he's I saw this in the room. Um, when we were visiting there. So basically, uh, it kind of quite, it was quite dramatic, the trip. So, so basically on this, this trip, um, uh, everyone went outside at some point and people were kind of a little bit sick. The tech people were sick of what the business people were doing to some extent, you know, uh, there's always this tension. It's not probably, especially early in a company. Where the tech people are like, what do I need you business guy for? We're going to make this thing and it's going to get out there. And the business people have to go raise the money, find sales, find partnerships, et cetera. And it's subjective stuff that the tech people don't like or sometimes understand. More or less this happened. You know, people were uncomfortable with kind of promises that Charles was making and just the accusations. I don't really even you know I I know Charles some. Um, and but I don't even really know what was going on at that time. But there was this general sense of frustration with them. He also seems to be in some ways executing well on like a effective smart business strategy, but maybe over promising what's possible to the point of breaking people out. And then we kind of seen later. Um, you know I think some of the stuff with Cardano was probably at least aggressive. I would say. Um, but that you know the jury was not out at that time in my eyes. Right? Um, and Amir also was in target because I think people just thought he wasn't doing enough that sounded like. And so they were both jettisoned from the project in Zug. You know, and I was like, they were like out on the terrace. It's like, and they had like a nice sort of loft that they rented. That was like the Ethereum dev house in Zug. And so I'm like watching this happen. And, you know, it was kind of, You know, quite crazy. And then actually they instated two more co-founders, so to speak, right then, who kind of jumped on board the project and helped out. It was like a fun and kind of crazy trip. Otherwise, you know, we went out in Zurich. Some people got in trouble with the cops. I won't add more detail to that. But Zurich's a funny place where In the US, we're not used to people drinking on the street. And in Zurich, everyone drinks on the street and few people are in the bar. It was a strange experience. We went on some hikes. It's a very nice part of the world, Switzerland. But plenty of drama in the early days. I remember having a funny conversation with Mihaly about, he had this book about swarm behavior. And he learned, I had a mathematical background.