**[00:00] SPEAKER_05:** My name is Kieren James-Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James Hermosdiar and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called BlockApps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened. And so we wanted to kind of get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity. And here we are. So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. All righty. So let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad of Bitcoin, and I distinctly remember it being $3 down from a recent peak of $14 or $15. I thought it was interesting and looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. If you ask me then I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

**[02:24] SPEAKER_02:** That said let me hand the question over to Jim. When were you first aware of Bitcoin? Aware is different than like interested in fact. I don't know I was like I came from an academic background so I'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it but I was like a little bit too above all that like oh that's like a money thing I'm not interested in that money world. Really no like the interest came from when you reached out to Steve who was an old friend of mine and that Kieren had been following his blog and Steve called me up and he's like this guy Kieren just called me up and you have to go look at this Ethereum thing. And so at first I was like yeah you know I'm not interested in all this fake money thing and I went and I read the white paper. And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about like a banking or something. This is about incentivization on the internet. And that drew me in. And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they, and at the time it was a test net.

**[03:45] SPEAKER_05:** And that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there. Well I don't know let me pass it on to Victor. Yeah let's Jim will pick that up. I'm trying a little bit stay chronological so I you know I was 2010 2011 sounds like same time frame for you. I think we'll pull back in a question or two right to that era and we'll talk in in more detail but let's hold on it for just a moment Vic do you want to take it.

**[04:14] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah I think I became aware of it around the same time as you. I was doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time and I felt really disconnected from North America so I became sort of an early fan of podcasts and one of the big podcast networks was this thing called TWiT that was like all technical podcasts and one of the podcasts I really loved was this podcast Security Now which went really deep into these kind of like security technical kind of things and he did like a couple episodes of Bitcoin and I was like really really fascinated by it but mostly from a technical angle like and even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it didn't get any Bitcoin or if I did I think the rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office. And I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, we can transfer money and like it's basically free internet magic money and I was like I honestly was kind of repelled by that like that kind of seemed like too nutty even for me at the time. Did we all hate it before we liked it?

**[05:44] SPEAKER_05:** I never hated it I was sort of just like not that interested I guess. You know I think from the East Coast the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable. I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like.

**[06:04] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah you know after your physics days you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like like I guess I didn't hate it I just felt I was too good for it but I think I found the like.

**[06:21] SPEAKER_00:** Like everyone talked about so I was fascinated the technical aspect like I said like you know and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software but I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs they're like they were like kind of fanatical like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off I would say.

**[06:52] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored crypto. Some of them weighed in on it. But yeah, I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something. It's just like the most horsepower wins from a you know intellectual perspective and I guess the hardest working horsepower very few of those people got interested. And in you know crypto blockchain a few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones as far as you know compared to younger ones like folks like Dan Boneh etc but yeah I think I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess. Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days was.

**[08:13] SPEAKER_00:** Sketchy because most of the use cases that like I thought the technology was fascinating but whenever I would ask about you know I'm a product guy so I would always ask like what's the use case why would you use it and people would describe you know things to circumvent existing laws like the big one in China that I remember is like oh I can transfer money and bypass you know foreign exchange rules and stuff and I was like is that legal like no one would you know.

**[08:42] SPEAKER_02:** Mention anything afterwards basically yeah well I got over feeling too good for it I'll tell you that yeah and we all did yeah.

**[08:55] SPEAKER_05:** I want to touch on the other, the big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple of times, was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox was that first big price run up. I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks to 1200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person. So somebody said consumer interest tracks with the price. And people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top, you know. And whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side. And sort of crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound. But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew who were not.

**[10:19] SPEAKER_02:** Quite crypto savvy in the industry et cetera were suddenly paying attention when Mt. Gox was happening just getting into things. I what year was it was it 2015 2014 2014 probably right I think Mt. Gox was 13. Let me check yeah okay 13. Yeah okay so that was a little before but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time. I was new enough to it that it was still I was observing it as a you know like a third party you know it was it was interesting to me but but yeah I think I spent a little time to understand what because you know the newspaper coverage like usual was terrible about it they didn't explain what was going on so I spent a little time to understand that yes there was a problem but no it had nothing to do with blockchain it was uh it was oh there's.

**[11:12] SPEAKER_05:** I think you're right, so the run up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14 it looks like or okay so it officially shuttered February 2014. Though, and the big the 1200 that I remember was like November 2013 it looks like. When did the hack happen. December. Oh, I think right here okay okay yeah right there yeah.

**[11:38] SPEAKER_00:** So, yeah, interesting times for sure. Because I think about Mt. Gox and, oh, what was... I'm blanking right now. What was the name of that, you know, dark web marketplace that used... Silk Road. Silk Road, yeah. Like, I think it's those were kind of intertwined in those early days right so I remember like even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about and I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there like you know lots of illicit stuff was a list listed there you know.

**[12:12] SPEAKER_05:** That's wow you know I think I never did that I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road um just heard about it at like I had a Mt. Gox account and some others there was a period where like Dwolla was doing crypto stuff and then I think they stopped and I believe they're still around as like a payment API company but yeah because I definitely use them and some others.

**[12:38] SPEAKER_00:** I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt. Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other and that was like the sort of like you know as we've as you mentioned like the first kind of iteration of like oh you know all crypto and blockchain is dead now and then it just keeps coming back right.

**[12:59] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, it sure does. There's a little bit of bias in the news on how they cover problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional world. If there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, it might mean that we need a little more regulation or something, but that was a bad person. So it's always like much more tied into you know that the price of of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens but you don't see like NASDAQ crashing because like somebody commits fraud somewhere I mean I guess fraud's big enough but yeah I agreed. Just a segue yeah.

**[13:50] SPEAKER_05:** Segueing quickly can you guys go into how you met because you guys met first and then we can do the whole how we all yeah Jim do do I do I want to start or do you want to start.

**[14:00] SPEAKER_02:** Uh, I'll start and I'll pass it over. I, uh, actually, so I had, uh, back in the nineties, I was in academia and, in the aughts, I was in the startup world and I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups and I had two sons who were in the, our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs. And we said, hey, let's just be crazy right now. And let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China. and actually put them in a school there so I called around some various friends and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing and he says I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys so in fact let me pass it over to you right now and you can.

**[14:58] SPEAKER_00:** Well, yeah. And so the VC, you know, who we're still friends with, like he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said, like, oh, I have this brilliant CTO and he says he wants to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is. So don't put all your eggs in this basket. But then we started talking that summer and you weren't like traveling in the country so you were like in a different place every another advantage of us both being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country and and I remember like know like we were kind of talking over the summer and I was like you know seeing how serious you were about coming and and at one point you said okay look if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing I will come and take the job to Beijing and I went to the school that my kids went to which and said like you know can you make space for two foreign kids this international program they said yes if you can but the kids have to be here the first day of school and first day of school was two weeks from that conversation so I called Jim up and said look I can do it.

**[16:14] SPEAKER_02:** You know I can guarantee a place for them but you have to be here on this day and to my shock he actually said yes and he like talked up his house and like everything in the house in like I think we had 12 days to be in school and we probably were had the had to have the house back within like like I don't know less than a week so that was a crazy week but but Victor was a great help in like we were going to a country we'd never been to before didn't know much about Victor had also moved to Asia a few years earlier and so he had sort of scoped out everything and he knew he knew where the good schools were he knew where the good apartment buildings were helped us out tremendously so yeah it was a great experience it was an exciting time to be in China was right around the first Olympics you know.

**[17:02] SPEAKER_00:** Like it was right around that the Beijing Olympics and so it's a really exciting time but yeah you wound up saying for about 18 months right in total and a little less but yeah it was it was over a year yeah and then we just kept in touch from there like we loved working together yeah what year did you arrive um what was this rough time yeah who are you asking because it was different uh you Jim.

**[17:26] SPEAKER_02:** Oh 2011. 2011 summer we're driving all over the country 2011 September August I can't remember we were we were in Beijing gotcha gotcha very cool and so then you're back end of 2012 or early 2013 something like that yeah we were back at um when did we come back I guess we were back in the country in 2013. Gotcha but like January.

**[17:56] SPEAKER_05:** Let me, I'll segue, I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident. Maybe not purely by accident, but basically the I had passed my qualifying exam. I'm going to say spring 2014, or maybe May, April or May 2014. So for those who are not aware of how a PhD program works, qualifying exam is like one of the last things you need to do before you just do the research and produce the thesis. So sometimes it's a coursework requirement. Sometimes you need to, you know, translate a work from like an academic work from one language to to another to show proficiency. I think most of them have dropped those requirements at this point. And so, you know, it's a whole bunch of study, intense prep at Berkeley. It's a three hour oral exam with a couple of people from your department and one from an external department. And then they give you a pass or not. I got a pass. Thankfully, it was a. I don't know that it was it was everyone feels bad after their qualifying exam except the people who are really good right like and you know so while I passed it I it was like you know didn't feel great the at least the rest of that day um when did you find out the result like immediately oh you put you in the hall and they tell you.

**[19:38] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah okay that's good so you're just like very nervous I don't know what it was like for you but for me it was just like three guys I knew and I I was nervous too but it wasn't like they had to go and like calculate numbers or something they just kind of come out and they're like yeah yeah yeah exactly it was no it was like that right yeah it's it's a oral it's.

**[19:58] SPEAKER_05:** Subjective in a sense, but you've got several of the world's foremost experts in some subjects, so they're able to assess whether you understand it enough or not to proceed with research. The qualifying exam led to I needed a short break from math. I was in mathematical physics. And I had almost taken a job working for a data science company that was taking, I can't quite remember, something having to do with Nielsen TV ratings and doing something with the data and maybe selling it back to networks. I can't remember at this time. But, you know, it seemed like an okay thing. I also wanted to go back to New York for the summer. I'm from New York. And, you know, as with many New Yorkers, it took some time to adapt to the California culture. And I didn't fully do it. I still, you know, I'm prone sometimes to bash the Bay Area, but I still kind of like it there. I'm sitting there right now, by the way. Yes, yes, Jim's there. I'm in the state of New York at the moment. but but yeah but you know I need a little break basically and it ended up being possible to work on the Ethereum project um so somehow um my you know I guess I'll go into this somehow uh my dad Joe Lubin got attached to the project basically because he was always he was tracking Bitcoin blockchain for a long time um he had a CS background plus the financial background and ran a hedge fund for a number of years, and so it's just kind of always watching technological innovations in financial services. And I guess always had a little bit of the you know blockchain philosophical character in that you know let's say pro pro freedom little little bit of a libertarian streak kind of thing. And I believe he happened to just be visiting our families. He's from Toronto. A lot of blockchain people in Toronto for one reason or another. And he went, I believe, to it might have been a Bitcoin meetup at that time, or it might have been the first Ethereum meetup. but this would have been January February 2014 I believe and Vitalik was speaking there and you know like everyone around that time where um did you see Vitalik speak about something um you got really excited right and so he actually got ready to start helping out the project right away he actually thought for a time that he might be a software developer for the project and you know it didn't turn out that way we can go into it a little bit later but he started working on it again let's take February March 2014 and so he just sent me the white paper like right after maybe right before my qualifying exam i got a chance to read it and it was pretty cool and interesting and new and that was sort of the first time i grasped the potential of technology and it caused me to go back and read the bitcoin white paper etc and it was sort of exciting enough to work on for that summer basically so that's how i got into it and subsequently you know jim jim alluded to this earlier i started to work with the project and reached out to Steve Shu a great great friend of ours um kind of uh i don't know not quite famously brilliant definitely brilliant somewhat famous uh super cool guy and I've been a long time reader of Steve's blog he's one of the few really excellent kind of general communicators who's a super technical guy but most people who are really technical in communication have a hard time I don't distilling it for at least kind of a mass market audience. But Steve is actually good at that. But with nuanced coverage of technical topics, so anyway, caught up with Steve, and that takes us to, Steve forwarding on the Ethereum white paper to Jim. And I believe the first time I spoke to Steve, I was in New York, but was just about to go back to the Bay Area. So that takes us to maybe June, July 2014. And maybe I came back in August or something like that. And it turned out that Jim was there in Hayward and we got to meet up.

**[24:58] SPEAKER_02:** What do you really think August 2014 September something like that oh it was around then because uh also ironically I was driving across the country that summer too and uh it was right after I came back that's all your big life changes are related to some cross country you do a soul searching you do a literal search well see I was in Montana and then I was back in the Bay Area and then we talked.

**[25:27] SPEAKER_05:** Yeah okay that's cool how was Montana by the way well maybe we shouldn't go yeah um Montana oddly crypto friendly yeah yeah makes sense big sky country right yeah that's my country um okay so let me see here i want to um i have a couple other 2014 anecdotes that uh you guys may not even know that much about but maybe we should jump ahead.

**[25:56] SPEAKER_00:** To 2015 and go back so just before we go past 2014. So I moved back from China in 2014 and so you know me and Jim were talking about like oh now that we were I was back what kind of project could we do together so while you had started that conversation me and Jim were like thinking about okay you know like maybe we could work on a startup together and at some point you forward me the paper as well so like I think once so that's that's kind of how I got into it as well.

**[26:31] SPEAKER_05:** I want to give, yeah, I don't want to speak the whole time, but I have some info here that I forget if I told you guys at length. Okay, go for it. In 2014, so basically, I did work on the Ethereum project through a bunch of 2014 projects. As far as tech projects go, it was much more global, a little more European, but you had Canada, you had a bunch of people in Zug, Switzerland, a little bit in Israel in the early days. We worked out of an office, my dad and I, and Guy named Stephen Narayoff, who is now kind of famous. Actually, if you Google the name, it's definitely an interesting and colorful story that I'll go into a little bit. And a guy named Jonathan, whose last name I couldn't find when I was writing this down. But Jonathan's a good guy. And I don't know if they parted ways at some point or how that all happened. So we're working in this office in Times Square and you know really trying to find kind of different ways to advance the project meeting with lots of people so you know that's when I met Steve shoe who introduced me to Jim basically just kind of calling up whoever might be interested but part of the plans that the Ethereum folks had was you know they had the they acknowledged that There would be a need for kind of ongoing pure research, and then, in addition to more like focused R&D to build the network out. And so Vitalik at some point penned article about you know 10 hard problems in cryptocurrency, or something of that nature in which, and I think it was If we went back now, it would look both very insightful and a little bit dated. I'm sure some of them have been solved and some of them may not need to be solved because something else emerged. basically foresaw that they the the need for you know privacy above and beyond pseudonymity for instance yeah or and you know many things with that transition from proof of work to proof of stake or just like energy efficient blockchains which people were talking about at that time but My position in academia at that time seemed to be helpful as the blockchain people were just so different from the academia people, despite both of them being really smart groups of people. Blockchain people were not worried about doing things through the proper channels and approval and writing it up the right way and all that sort of thing. Whereas something about academia makes you fearful of being wrong because you you're wrong enough in public there are kind of consequences for it and the kind of i would say the tech attitude in general is like getting something out there you know get it to work basically but get it out and then iterate and blockchain people had that you know in a extreme and I would say also Ethereum was much more like that than the Bitcoin culture the Bitcoin culture was like a bunch of practicing but academic cryptographers who never wanted to change anything and the Ethereum people were more like have like the software and computer science engineering attitude of like well let's get out there let's let's tinker with it let's kind of see what happens and it looks good arguments for both especially when you're talking about like a system that custody's but you know that records a lot of high value ownership interests and allows them to be transferred. But all that is to say, it was useful for the Ethereum Foundation to have someone who was actively in academia to kind of work with and coordinate everything. So we agreed to work on a body called the Cryptocurrency Research Group. And that was composed of sort of myself, Vitalik, and our friend, Aaron Wright. He's since gone on to a number of Web3 projects, but at the time was practicing attorney but also a professor at Cardozo Law School and he came to that Times Square office which was you know not the greatest of offices I would I would say and just sort of really leaned in on Ethereum and kind of helped structure everything so that you know it would be kind of the most robust not just technology but they actually did kind of a quite good job in figuring out how to set things up that other projects since did you know certainly did not do as good a job I'll say so you know it was it was funny times. And in 2014, I also got to go to Zug. For those who don't know, the Ethereum Foundation was one of the first to be headquartered in Switzerland. And it was kind of it's become a very popular choice for crypto foundations because i guess the ethereum foundation sort of blazed a path and okay funny thing about Switzerland is that the kind of local authorities also just seem like business people like they want to land the future tax revenue and employment and so you can kind of James Heiting. Once Switzerland is split into some number of cantons, which are like States a little smaller than Us. States, of course, and so you can kind of go from Canton to Canton, and try to get the best offer, and offer really means like, you know, tax treatment. any kind of grants or just like, you know, and helping get fast answers around legal questions. You know, one of the tough things about the United States is that sometimes you don't know what's allowed. And the Swiss environment, they were fairly clear, you know, about what they wanted for the special tax treatment and, you know, et cetera, et cetera. So we went out and visited Zug i don't know mid late summer 2014 and i got to meet all of the founders of ethereum at that time i believe they're kind of eight in total and You know, so I think those numbers changed over time, though. Yeah, those numbers change. Yes. So, well, but yeah, I think so. I don't exactly know how all of it happened, but, you know, Vitalik, there's always a global project, right? So Vitalik would kind of go around the world and evangelize, get people excited, and they would want to work with the project. And so a bunch of folks got attached to it. And, you know, I think obviously it worked right. But if he were to do it again, I bet he would be a little bit more careful about adding folks to it because it is just like too many. Like if you went to a US venture capitalist with a slide that says eight co-founders and they're not all, you know, currently running billion dollar companies, you'd be just laughed out of the room. And yet it it works right. It actually functioned. And the, you know, so kind of the way it broke apart was that there were like the technical element, technical guys. So I think, I don't quite know how this happened, but pretty early on, like Gavin Wood, Jeff Wilkie started building out versions of Ethereum, the C++ and Go clients specifically. We'll go into the clients soon. Cause there's good stories there. David Price- But Alec was building the Python client, they were all working together on technical documentation and the reason that people were building multiple clients was that there was the perception that bitcoin was controlled and centralized. David Price- Because there's only really one definitive client bitcoin D. Right. And so there was this kind of huge replication of technical effort, like each of them eventually got their own teams. There were JavaScript clients, you know, there's many of them kind of came out later. and i'd say the project so the project had sort of tech folks and business folks like like any tech project didn't really have a nominal ceo at any time it was closest to being Charles Hoskinson so i think at the time i went to zug the leadership looked like On the business side, Charles is the CEO, Amir Chitrit, who is in Israel. He kind of did business development. He's a funny guy. I still see him every once in a while. Joe my dad and Anthony Diorio as the other business guys who probably had the most operating experience. And then the tech side was Vitalik, Jeff, Gavin, and then Mihai had sort of done corporate setup. I believe Mihai worked with Vitalik on Bitcoin Magazine. So Vitalik very interesting character where you know most of the time your technical geniuses are not good communicators and he was sort of a journalist running bitcoin magazine writing a lot of the articles good if he started it or kind of joined it and he would he would i think he kind of crowdfunded the articles a little bit like for you know if i can get a pledge of one bitcoin i'll write an article about x you know and at the time of bitcoin was inexpensive but you know those those values went up and i think it actually ended up being a good funding mechanism you know the articles he wrote in the future and it led him to kind of have a sort of impartial thought leader position in addition to his really strong technical ability and the ideas he was generating etc and i know he had joined a bunch of projects early on and helped work with them like i think Mastercoin was maybe the first colored coin project he did some work on that so anyway so those were the eight at the time and the there was a meeting for everyone to kind of get on the same page you know remote project there was a slack people were maybe working a little bit at cross purposes lots of infighting people are stressed they're trying to deliver on this like awesome concept that Vitalik put out there and then everyone kind of tried to grab ownership of like was there a reason to have all these different clients you know in the end empirically it worked right but a little bit of it was a I want you know ethereum to be mine sort of thing and he's I saw this in the room when we were visiting there. So basically, it kind of quite, it was quite dramatic, the trip. So, so basically on this, this trip, everyone went outside at some point and people were kind of a little bit sick. The tech people were sick of what the business people were doing to some extent, you know, there's always this tension. It's not probably, especially early in a company. where the tech people are like, what do I need you business guy for? We're going to make this thing and it's going to get out there. And the business people have to go raise the money, find sales, find partnerships, et cetera. And it's subjective stuff that the tech people don't like or sometimes understand. more or less this happened you know people were uncomfortable with kind of promises that charles was making and just the accusations i don't really even you know i i know charles some and but i don't even really know what was going on at that time But there was this general sense of frustration with them. He also seems to be in some ways executing well on like a effective smart business strategy, but maybe over promising what's possible to the point of bringing people out and then we kind of seen later you know I think some of the stuff with Cardano was probably at least aggressive I would say but that you know the jury was not out at that time in my eyes right and Amir also was in Target because I think people just thought he wasn't doing enough that sounded like and so they were both jettisoned from the project in Zug You know, and I was like, they were like out on the terrace. It's like, and they had like a nice sort of loft that they rented. That was like the Ethereum dev house in Zug. And so I'm like watching this happen. And, you know, it was kind of, You know, quite crazy. And then actually they instated two more co-founders, so to speak, right then, who kind of jumped on board the project and helped out. It was like a fun and kind of crazy trip. Otherwise, you know, we went out in Zurich. Some people got in trouble with the cops. I won't add more detail to that. But Zurich's a funny place where In the US, we're not used to people drinking on the street. And in Zurich, everyone drinks on the street and few people are in the bar. It was a strange experience. We went on some hikes. It's a very nice part of the world, Switzerland. But plenty of drama in the early days. I remember having a funny conversation with Mihaly about, he had this book about swarm behavior. And he learned, I had a mathematical background. We're talking about the mathematics of swarms and all that sort of thing. but yeah the the it felt nascent intense but disorganized they were also grappling with the decision on initially they wanted to have a non-profit protocol and a for-profit they called it crypto google at the time to sort of monetize the nonprofit protocol and plenty of blockchain companies have gone and done that sort of thing subsequently but that was also decided at that meeting that they would be all not for profit yeah and people didn't like it you know some folks started talking about brain drain it was a mix some people liked it some some didn't sort of the threat being like if you don't do this for profit like i'm gonna leave this this project kind of thing and i think about everyone sort of went off and did start their own businesses.

**[42:30] SPEAKER_00:** So you know it is what it is but anyways let me pause and see if you got did I tell this whole story you know to you guys at any point I I think you told parts of it not the entire thing but yes I I didn't realize the sort of Game of Thrones aspect happened in all of that period short period of time.

**[42:53] SPEAKER_05:** You know that like i i knew that all that had happened behind the scenes i think it was all like i think it was going on continually but it came to a head all in this one meeting a sort of a funny memory we so bitcoin suisse was getting off the ground at that time and we met with a guy named Nicholas i believe who maybe was the ceo or one of the founders they just googled it says founder and there's a different ceo now but he made this funny he's a nice guy and I think something happened there I'm not quite sure he made this funny comment we were in an elevator and this shows the difference between like the American