**[00:00] SPEAKER_04:** All righty, so we're on. Thanks. So my name is Karen James Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James Hermosdiar and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called Block Apps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened. And so we wanted to kind of, you know, get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity. And here we are.

So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we, you know, we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a, you know, current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. All righty. So let's start out with the question, when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad. Of Bitcoin and I distinctly remember it being three dollars down from a recent peak of 14 or 15 dollars. I thought it was interesting and you know looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. You know, I'd if you asked me then, I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And they might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

**[02:24] SPEAKER_01:** That said, let me hand the question over to Jim. When were you first aware of Bitcoin? Aware is different than like interested. In fact, like I didn't hate it. I was just like not that interested. I guess. Um, you know, I was like a little bit too above all that. Like, oh, that's like a money thing. I'm not interested in that money world. So, uh, uh, really no. Like the interest came from when you reached out to Steve, who was a uh, an old friend of mine. And that, uh, uh, Kieren had been following his blog. And, and, uh, Steve called me up and he's like, uh, this guy Kieren just called me up and you, you have to go look at this Ethereum thing. And so, uh, at first, I was like, uh, yeah, you know, I'm not interested in all this, this, uh, uh, fake money thing. And I went and I read the white paper. And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked in. I was like, this isn't just about like a banking or something. This is about incentivization on the internet. And that drew me in. And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they, and at the time it was a test net.

**[03:45] SPEAKER_04:** Uh, and, uh, and that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into it. There, well, I don't know, let me pass it on to Victor. Yeah, let's, uh, Jim will pick that up. I'm trying a little bit to stay chronological. So I, you know, I was 2010, 2011. Sounds like the same time frame for you. I think we'll pull back in a question or two right to that era. Um, and we'll talk in, in more detail, uh, but let's, let's hold on it for just a moment. Uh, Vic, do you want to take it?

**[04:14] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think I became aware of it, um, around the same time as you. I was, I was, um, you know, doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time. And I, I felt really disconnected from North America. So I became sort of an early fan of podcasts. And one of the big podcast networks was this thing called Twit that was like all technical podcasts. And one of the podcasts I really loved was this podcast Security Now, which went really deep into these kind of like security technical kinds of things. And he did like a couple episodes of Bitcoin. And I was like, you know, really, really fascinated by it. But mostly from a technical angle, like, and even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it. Didn't get any Bitcoin or if I did, uh, I think the rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office. And I was like, what are those for? And they're like, oh, we're mining Bitcoin. And I was like, oh, why are you mining Bitcoin? And they're like, oh, well, we can transfer money and like it's basically free internet magic money. And I was like, I, I honestly was kind of repelled by that. Like, that kind of seemed like too nutty even for me at the time. Did we all hate it before we liked it?

**[05:44] SPEAKER_04:** I never hated it. I was sort of just like not that interested. I guess, um, you know, I think, um, you know, from the East Coast, um, the attitude towards like stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable. I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like.

**[06:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, you know, after your physics days, you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like, like, I guess I didn't hate it. I just felt I was too good for it. But I think I found the like.

**[06:21] SPEAKER_00:** Like everyone talked about, so I was fascinated. The technical aspect, like I said, like you know, and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software. But I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask, like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs, they're like they were like kind of fanatical. Like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off. I would say.

**[06:52] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored crypto. Some of them weighed in on it. But yeah, I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something. It's just like the most horsepower wins from a, you know, intellectual perspective. And I guess the hardest working horsepower. Very few of those people got interested, um, and in, uh, you know, crypto blockchain, a few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones, um, as far as, uh, you know, compared to younger ones like folks like Dan Boneh, etc. But yeah, I think I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while. I guess.

**[08:10] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days was sketchy because most of the use cases that, like I thought the technology was fascinating, but whenever I would ask about, you know, I'm a product guy. So I would always ask like what's the use case? Why would you use it? And people would describe, you know, things to circumvent existing laws like the big one in China that I remember is like, oh, I can transfer money and bypass, you know, foreign exchange rules and stuff. And I was like, is that legal? Like no one would, you know.

**[08:42] SPEAKER_01:** Mention anything afterwards. Basically, yeah. Well, I got over feeling, uh, too good for it. I'll tell you that. Yeah. And we all did. Yeah.

**[08:55] SPEAKER_04:** I want to touch on the other, the big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple of times, was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox was that first big price run up. I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks to 1200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person. To some extent, consumer interest tracks with the price. And people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably, the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top, you know. And whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side. And sort of crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound. But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew who were not quite crypto savvy in the industry etc. were suddenly paying attention when Mt. Gox was happening.

**[10:24] SPEAKER_01:** Gox was happening. Just getting into things. I, I, what year was it? Was it 2015, 2014, 2014 probably right. I think Docs was 13. Let me check. Yeah, okay. 13. Yeah, okay. So that was a little before, but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time. Um, uh, I was new enough to it that it was still, I was observing it as a, you know, like a third party. You know, it was, it was interesting to me, but, but yeah, I think I, I spent a little time to understand what because, you know, the newspaper coverage like usual was terrible about it. They didn't explain what was going on. So I spent a little time to understand that. Yes, there was a problem, but no, it had nothing to do with blockchain. It was, uh, it was.

**[11:12] SPEAKER_04:** I think you're right. So the run up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14. It looks like, okay. So it officially shuttered February 2014, though. And the big, the 1200 that I remember was like November 2013. It looks like when did the hack happen? December. Oh, I think right here. Okay, okay. Yeah, right there. Yeah.

**[11:38] SPEAKER_03:** So, yeah, interesting times for sure.

**[11:41] SPEAKER_00:** Because I think about Mt. Gox and, oh, what was, I'm blanking right now. What was the name of that, you know, dark web marketplace that used.

**[11:50] SPEAKER_03:** Silk Road.

**[11:51] SPEAKER_00:** Silk Road, yeah. Like, I think it's, those were kind of intertwined in those early days, right? So I remember like even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about. And I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there. Like you know, lots of illicit stuff was listed there. You know.

**[12:12] SPEAKER_04:** That's wow. You know, I think I never did that. I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road. Um, just heard about it at like I had a Mt. Gox account. Um, and some others there was a period where like, uh, Dwala was doing crypto stuff. Um, and then I think they stopped. Um, and I believe they're still around as like a payment API company. Um, but, um, yeah, because I really use them and some others.

**[12:38] SPEAKER_00:** I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt. Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other. And that was like the sort of like, you know, as we've, as you mentioned, like the first kind of iteration of like, oh, you know, all crypto and blockchain is dead now. And then it just keeps coming back, right?

**[12:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it sure does. Um, okay. There's a little bit of bias in the new, the news on how they cover, um, problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional, uh, world like if there's, if there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, that means that like it might mean that there, we need a little more regulation or something. But that, that was a bad person. So it's always like, uh, much more tied into, you know, that the price of, of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens. But you don't see like, e, crashing because like somebody commits fraud somewhere. I mean, I guess fraud's big enough, but yeah, I agreed, um, just a segue. Yeah.

**[13:50] SPEAKER_04:** John Coleman, SIG way, and quickly. Can you guys go into how you met? Because you guys met first, and then we can do the whole how we all do.

**[13:57] SPEAKER_00:** Do I do I want to start, or do you want to start?

**[14:00] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, I'll start and and I'll pass it over. I, uh, actually so I had, uh, uh, back in the 90s, I was in academia. And in the aughts, I was in the startup world. And I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups. And I had, uh, two sons who were in the, our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs. And we said, hey, let's just be crazy right now. And let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China. And actually put them in a school there. So I called around some various friends and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing. And he says, I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys. So in fact, let me pass it over to you right now. And you can.

**[14:58] SPEAKER_00:** Well, yeah. And, and so the VC, um, you know, who we're still friends with, he, G, like he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said like, oh, I have this brilliant CTO and he says he wants to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is. So you know, don't put all your eggs in this basket. But then we started talking that summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, you know, like you were in a, in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, you know, seeing how serious you were about coming. And, and at one point you said, okay, look, if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come and take the job to Beijing. And I went to the school that my kids went to, which and said like, you know, can you make space for, um, you know, two foreign kids this, inter, international program. They said yes, if you can, but the kids have to be here the first day of school and first day of school was two weeks from that conversation. So I called him up and said, look, I can do it.

**[16:14] SPEAKER_01:** You know, I can guarantee a place for them, but you have to be here on this day. And to my shock, he actually said yes. And he like talked to his house and like everything in the house in like, I think we had 12 days to be in school. And we probably were had to have the, had to have the house back within like, like I don't know, less than a week. So that was a crazy week. But, but, uh, Victor was a great help in like we were going to a country we'd never been to before didn't know much about. Victor had also moved to Asia a few years earlier and so he had sort of scoped out everything and he knew, he knew where the good schools were. He knew where the good apartment buildings were, helped us out just tremendously. So yeah, it was a great experience. It was an exciting time to be in China. It was right around the first Olympics. You know.

**[17:02] SPEAKER_00:** Like it was right around that, the Beijing Olympics. And so it's a really exciting time. But yeah, you wound up saying for about 18 months right in total. And, um, a little less, but yeah, it was it was over a year. Yeah. And then we just kept in touch from there. Like we loved working together. Yeah, it was great. What year did you arrive? Um, what was this rough time? Yeah, who are you asking because it was different. Uh, you, Jim.

**[17:26] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, 2011, 2011 summer. We're driving all over the country. 2011, September, August. I can't remember. We were, we were in Beijing. Gotcha, gotcha. Very cool. And so then you're back end of 2012 or early 2013 something like that. Yeah, we were back at, um, when did we come back? I guess we were back in the country in 2013. But like January.

**[17:56] SPEAKER_04:** Let me, I'll segue. I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident. Maybe not purely by accident, but basically the.

**[18:24] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, you know, after your physics days, you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like, like, I guess I didn't hate it. I just felt I was too good for it. But I think I found the like.

**[18:41] SPEAKER_00:** Like everyone talked about, so I was fascinated. The technical aspect, like I said, like you know, and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software. But I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask, like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs, they're like they were like kind of fanatical. Like there was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off. I would say.

**[19:10] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored crypto. Some of them weighed in on it. But yeah, I think it's sort of it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful in some sense people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something. It's just like the most horsepower wins from a, you know, intellectual perspective. And I guess the hardest working horsepower. Very few of those people got interested, um, and in, uh, you know, crypto blockchain, a few cryptographers certainly did and probably actually more established ones, um, as far as, uh, you know, compared to younger ones like folks like Dan Boneh, etc. But yeah, I think I don't know that I was too good for it, but that one, I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while. I guess.

**[20:10] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days was sketchy because most of the use cases that, like I thought the technology was fascinating, but whenever I would ask about, you know, I'm a product guy. So I would always ask like what's the use case? Why would you use it? And people would describe, you know, things to circumvent existing laws like the big one in China that I remember is like, oh, I can transfer money and bypass, you know, foreign exchange rules and stuff. And I was like, is that legal? Like no one would, you know.

**[20:42] SPEAKER_01:** Mention anything afterwards. Basically, yeah. Well, I got over feeling, uh, too good for it. I'll tell you that. Yeah. And we all did. Yeah.

**[20:55] SPEAKER_04:** I want to touch on the other, the big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era is, and we've kind of gone through this kind of cycle a couple of times, was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox was that first big price run up. I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks to 1200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe. And as we've seen in the last couple, you know, crypto, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person. To some extent, consumer interest tracks with the price. And people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably, the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top, you know. And whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof, everyone's hurt on the other side. And sort of crypto has somehow this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound. But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone, lots of people I knew who were not quite crypto savvy in the industry etc. were suddenly paying attention when Mt. Gox was happening.

**[22:24] SPEAKER_01:** Gox was happening. Just getting into things. I, I, what year was it? Was it 2015, 2014, 2014 probably right. I think Docs was 13. Let me check. Yeah, okay. 13. Yeah, okay. So that was a little before, but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time. Um, uh, I was new enough to it that it was still, I was observing it as a, you know, like a third party. You know, it was, it was interesting to me, but, but yeah, I think I, I spent a little time to understand what because, you know, the newspaper coverage like usual was terrible about it. They didn't explain what was going on. So I spent a little time to understand that. Yes, there was a problem, but no, it had nothing to do with blockchain. It was, uh, it was.

**[23:12] SPEAKER_04:** I think you're right. So the run up was actually end of 13 into the beginning of 14. It looks like, okay. So it officially shuttered February 2014, though. And the big, the 1200 that I remember was like November 2013. It looks like when did the hack happen? December. Oh, I think right here. Okay, okay. Yeah, right there. Yeah.

**[23:38] SPEAKER_03:** So, yeah, interesting times for sure.

**[23:41] SPEAKER_00:** Because I think about Mt. Gox and, oh, what was, I'm blanking right now. What was the name of that, you know, dark web marketplace that used.

**[23:50] SPEAKER_03:** Silk Road.

**[23:51] SPEAKER_00:** Silk Road, yeah. Like, I think it's, those were kind of intertwined in those early days, right? So I remember like even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about. And I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there. Like you know, lots of illicit stuff was listed there. You know.

**[24:12] SPEAKER_04:** That's wow. You know, I think I never did that. I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road. Um, just heard about it at like I had a Mt. Gox account. Um, and some others there was a period where like, uh, Dwala was doing crypto stuff. Um, and then I think they stopped. Um, and I believe they're still around as like a payment API company. Um, but, um, yeah, because I really use them and some others.

**[24:38] SPEAKER_00:** I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt. Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other. And that was like the sort of like, you know, as we've, as you mentioned, like the first kind of iteration of like, oh, you know, all crypto and blockchain is dead now. And then it just keeps coming back, right?

**[24:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it sure does. Um, okay. There's a little bit of bias in the new, the news on how they cover, um, problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional, uh, world like if there's, if there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means that the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, that means that like it might mean that there, we need a little more regulation or something. But that, that was a bad person. So it's always like, uh, much more tied into, you know, that the price of, of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens. But you don't see like, e, crashing because like somebody commits fraud somewhere. I mean, I guess fraud's big enough, but yeah, I agreed, um, just a segue. Yeah.

**[25:50] SPEAKER_04:** John Coleman, SIG way, and quickly. Can you guys go into how you met? Because you guys met first, and then we can do the whole how we all do.

**[25:57] SPEAKER_00:** Do I do I want to start, or do you want to start?

**[26:00] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, I'll start and and I'll pass it over. I, uh, actually so I had, uh, uh, back in the 90s, I was in academia. And in the aughts, I was in the startup world. And I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups. And I had, uh, two sons who were in the, our local school in California was a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs. And we said, hey, let's just be crazy right now. And let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China. And actually put them in a school there. So I called around some various friends and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing. And he says, I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys. So in fact, let me pass it over to you right now. And you can.

**[26:58] SPEAKER_00:** Well, yeah. And, and so the VC, um, you know, who we're still friends with, he, G, like he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said like, oh, I have this brilliant CTO and he says he wants to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is. So you know, don't put all your eggs in this basket. But then we started talking that summer and you weren't like traveling in the country. So you were like in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, you know, like you were in a, in a different place every, another advantage of us both, uh, uh, being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And, and I remember like, you know, seeing how serious you were about coming. And, and at one point you said, okay, look, if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come and take the job to Beijing. And I went to the school that my kids went to, which and said like, you know, can you make space for, um, you know, two foreign kids this, inter, international program. They said yes, if you can, but the kids have to be here the first day of school and first day of school was two weeks from that conversation. So I called him up and said, look, I can do it.

**[28:14] SPEAKER_01:** You know, I can guarantee a place for them, but you have to be here on this day. And to my shock, he actually said yes. And he like talked to his house and like everything in the house in like, I think we had 12 days to be in school. And we probably were had to have the, had to have the house back within like, like I don't know, less than a week. So that was a crazy week. But, but, uh, Victor was a great help in like we were going to a country we'd never been to before didn't know much about. Victor had also moved to Asia a few years earlier and so he had sort of scoped out everything and he knew, he knew where the good schools were. He knew where the good apartment buildings were, helped us out just tremendously. So yeah, it was a great experience. It was an exciting time to be in China. It was right around the first Olympics. You know.

**[29:02] SPEAKER_00:** Like it was right around that, the Beijing Olympics. And so it's a really exciting time. But yeah, you wound up saying for about 18 months right in total. And, um, a little less, but yeah, it was it was over a year. Yeah. And then we just kept in touch from there. Like we loved working together. Yeah, it was great. What year did you arrive? Um, what was this rough time? Yeah, who are you asking because it was different. Uh, you, Jim.

**[29:26] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, 2011, 2011 summer. We're driving all over the country. 2011, September, August. I can't remember. We were, we were in Beijing. Gotcha, gotcha. Very cool. And so then you're back end of 2012 or early 2013 something like that. Yeah, we were back at, um, when did we come back? I guess we were back in the country in 2013. But like January.

**[29:56] SPEAKER_04:** Let me, I'll segue. I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident. Maybe not purely by accident, but basically the.

**[30:24] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, you know, after your physics days, you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of like, like, I guess I didn't hate it. I just felt I was too good for it. But I think I found the like.

**[30:41] SPEAKER_00:** Like everyone talked about, so I was fascinated. The technical aspect, like I said, like you know, and it got me to read the white paper and even like download the software. But I think the part that kind of turned me off about was like when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask, like who are saying a Bitcoin mining rigs, they're like they were like kind of fanatical. Like there was that