**[00:00] SPEAKER_04:** All righty, so we're on. Thanks. So my name is Kieren James-Lubin. I'm joined by Jim or James Hermosdiar and Victor Wong. We are old friends. We also run a company together called Block Apps, which has been in operation for quite some time, but that's not what we're here to talk about today. We're actually taking the topic up of what Ethereum was like in the early days. So we've all had both an insider and an outsider perspective on Ethereum and enjoyed the really crazy and wild ride that has been in the last approximately decade in the blockchain space. And sometimes we forget all of the interesting things that happened. And so we wanted to kind of get in front of a camera and get it all down for posterity. And here we are. So with that said, I'll kind of take the lead on the discussion, but we're not trying to be formal here, trying to make it conversational. This is a first of a current produced podcast of sorts. I've been on a bunch of them. I don't think I've ever led one. So we're going to find out how it goes. All righty. So let's start out with the question: when were you first aware of Bitcoin and blockchain in particular? I'll give my answer to start. And there's still a kicking myself aspect to it. So I became aware, I'm going to say 2010, possibly 2011. So this would have been my senior year in undergrad of Bitcoin, and I distinctly remember it being three dollars down from a recent peak of 14 or 15 dollars. I thought it was interesting and looked into it a little bit. I didn't really get the idea of decentralization at the time. I just imagined it as some sort of digital money solution. If you asked me then, I probably couldn't have drawn a difference between it and digital banking or a PayPal type provider, that sort of thing. And I might have bought a little of it, but not nearly enough, of course.

**[02:24] SPEAKER_01:** That said, let me hand the question over to Jim. When were you first aware of Bitcoin? Aware is different than like interested. In fact, like I came from an academic background, so I'd been hearing about it probably since when you had been hearing about it. But I was like a little bit too above all that. Like, oh, that's like a money thing. I'm not interested in that money world. So really, no. Like, the interest came from when you reached out to Steve, who was an old friend of mine, and that Kieren had been following his blog. Steve called me up and he's like, "This guy Kieren just called me up and you have to go look at this Ethereum thing." So at first I was like, "Yeah, you know, I'm not interested in all this fake money thing." And I went and I read the white paper. And by the end of the white paper, I was hooked. I was like, this isn't just about a banking or something. This is about incentivization on the internet. And that drew me in. And at that point, there was enough ambiguous stuff being discussed. I wanted to just dig in and see how it worked. So that's when I started trying to write code that would connect to one of the peers and see how they... and at the time it was a testnet.

**[03:45] SPEAKER_04:** Uh, and that's when I started to understand the background of it and got really pulled into there. Well, I don't know. Let me pass it on to Victor. Yeah, let's—Jim will pick that up. I'm trying a little bit to stay chronological. So I was 2010, 2011. Sounds like same time frame for you. I think we'll pull back in a question or two right to that era, and we'll talk in more detail. But let's hold on it for just a moment. Vic, do you want to take it?

**[04:14] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I think I became aware of it around the same time as you. I was doing one of my startups in Beijing at the time, and I felt really disconnected from North America. So I became sort of an early fan of podcasts. And one of the big podcast networks was this thing called TWiT that was like all technical podcasts. And one of the podcasts I really loved was this podcast Security Now, which went really deep into these kind of security technical things. And he did a couple episodes on Bitcoin, and I was really fascinated by it, but mostly from a technical angle. And even to the point where I downloaded the Bitcoin client and ran it. Didn't get any Bitcoin, or if I did, I think the rewards were like 50 at the time or something like this. But the strange thing was that a year or two later, I started to notice at other Chinese startups, there'd be groups of computers in part of their office. And I was like, "What are those for?" And they're like, "Oh, we're mining Bitcoin." And I was like, "Oh, why are you mining Bitcoin?" And they're like, "Oh, well, we can transfer money and it's basically free internet magic money." And I was like... I honestly was kind of repelled by that. That kind of seemed too nutty even for me at the time. Did we all hate it before we liked it?

**[05:44] SPEAKER_04:** I never hated it. I was sort of just like not that interested, I guess. You know, I think from the East Coast, the attitude towards stiff financial stuff is probably more favorable. I think Jimmy would long since been out in California doing like...

**[06:04] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, you know, after your physics days... you're not telling me that there were other grad students who kind of liked... I guess I didn't hate it. I just felt I was too good for it. But I think I found the...

**[06:21] SPEAKER_00:** Like, everyone talked about it. So I was fascinated by the technical aspect, like I said. And it got me to read the white paper and even download the software. But I think the part that kind of turned me off was when you talk to some of the early people that I would ask, like who are saying, "A Bitcoin mining rig," they're like kind of fanatical. There was that crypto anarchist sort of flavor to the early days that kind of turned me off, I would say.

**[06:52] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, Jim, I would say the people in academia that were pretty successful on a classic track and were going to get a good postdoc and a good assistant professorship and all that sort of thing, mostly ignored crypto. Some of them weighed in on it. But yeah, I think it was too fringe to attract like the classically most successful people at that time. Whereas, you know, fighting against—not fighting against, but you're sort of fighting for jobs like in math or physics or something. It's just like the most horsepower wins from an intellectual perspective, and I guess the hardest working horsepower. Very few of those people got interested in crypto blockchain. A few cryptographers certainly did, and probably actually more established ones compared to younger ones, like folks like Dan Boneh, etc. But yeah, I think I don't know that I was too good for it, but I didn't grasp right away that it was revolutionary, and I didn't see anyone near me leaning into it for a while, I guess.

**[08:10] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, I would describe my view of it in the early days as sketchy because most of the use cases that I thought about... I'm a product guy, so I would always ask, "What's the use case? Why would you use it?" And people would describe things to circumvent existing laws. Like the big one in China that I remember is, "Oh, I can transfer money and bypass foreign exchange rules." And I was like, "Is that legal?" Like, no one would...

**[08:42] SPEAKER_01:** Mention anything afterwards. Basically, yeah. Well, I got over feeling too good for it. I'll tell you that. Yeah, and we all did.

**[08:55] SPEAKER_04:** I want to touch on the other big thing that sticks out in my memory from the early blockchain era—and we've kind of gone through this cycle a couple of times—was Mt. Gox. So Mt. Gox was that first big price run-up. I believe Bitcoin went from like 30 bucks to 1,200 bucks in a pretty short timeframe. And as we've seen in the last couple of years, you could call them asset bubbles if you were a cynical person. To some extent, consumer interest tracks with the price. And people are getting excited about price momentum. Articles get circulated, all that sort of thing. More people come in and it goes all the way up. And then seemingly invariably, the bubble bursts and someone is fleeced at the top—whether it's outright theft or merely collapsing asset values or some mix thereof. Everyone's hurt on the other side. And somehow crypto has this way of surviving all of this. The protocols themselves seem to be quite sound. But I guess the question is, do you guys remember Mt. Gox distinctly? I feel like everyone—lots of people I knew who were not quite crypto savvy in the industry, etc.—were suddenly paying attention when Mt. Gox...

**[10:24] SPEAKER_01:** Gox was happening. Just getting into things... What year was it? Was it 2015? 2014? 2014 probably, right? I think Mt. Gox was 2013. Let me check. Yeah, okay. So that was a little before, but that was still the topic that everybody was talking about at the time. I was new enough to it that I was observing it as a third party. It was interesting to me, but yeah. I think I spent a little time to understand what—because the newspaper coverage, like usual, was terrible about it. They didn't explain what was going on. So I spent a little time to understand that yes, there was a problem, but no, it had nothing to do with blockchain. It was... oh, there's...

**[11:12] SPEAKER_04:** I think you're right. So the run-up was actually end of 2013 into the beginning of 2014. It looks like okay, so it officially shuttered February 2014. And the big 1,200 that I remember was like November 2013. When did the hack happen? December... Oh, I think right here. Okay, yeah, right there.

**[11:38] SPEAKER_03:** So, yeah, interesting times for sure.

**[11:41] SPEAKER_00:** Because I think about Mt. Gox and... oh, what was... I'm blanking right now. What was the name of that dark web marketplace that used...

**[11:50] SPEAKER_03:** Silk Road.

**[11:51] SPEAKER_00:** Silk Road, yeah. Like, I think it's those were kind of intertwined in those early days. So I remember even going on to Silk Road just to check what it was about, and I was kind of shocked with what I saw listed there—lots of illicit stuff was listed there.

**[12:12] SPEAKER_04:** That's wow. You know, I think I never did that. I think I never actually navigated to Silk Road. Just heard about it. I had a Mt. Gox account and some others. There was a period where Dwolla was doing crypto stuff, and then I think they stopped. And I believe they're still around as a payment API company. But yeah, because I really used them and some others.

**[12:38] SPEAKER_00:** I remember the Silk Road arrests and the Mt. Gox hacks came relatively within the same time frame of each other, and that was like the sort of first iteration of "Oh, you know, all crypto and blockchain is dead now." And then it just keeps coming back.

**[12:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, it sure does. Okay, there's a little bit of bias in the news on how they cover problems in crypto versus problems in the traditional world. Like, if there's fraud and it happens to happen on the blockchain, then that means the blockchain is a corrupt place. And if there's fraud and it happens in traditional banking, that means maybe we need a little more regulation or something, but that was a bad person. So it's always much more tied into that. The price of Bitcoin can drop quite a bit when something like this happens, but you don't see ETH crashing because somebody commits fraud somewhere. I mean, I guess if fraud's big enough... But yeah, I agree. Just a segue.

**[13:50] SPEAKER_04:** John Coleman, SIG way and quickly. Can you guys go into how you met? Because you guys met first, and then we can do the whole how we all do.

**[13:57] SPEAKER_00:** Do I want to start, or do you want to start?

**[14:00] SPEAKER_01:** Uh, I'll start and I'll pass it over. So I had, back in the 90s, been in academia, and in the aughts I was in the startup world. I'd done a couple startups and I was ending one of my startups. And I had two sons who were in our local school in California—a Mandarin immersion school. And at this time, there was just a coincidence. Both my wife and I had ended jobs, and we said, "Hey, let's just be crazy right now. Let's take this to its extension. Let's go to China." And I called around some various friends, and one of the friends I called was a VC who had just funded a startup of Victor's in Beijing. And he says, "I'm gonna get you in touch with these guys." So in fact, let me pass it over to you right now, and you can...

**[14:58] SPEAKER_00:** Well, yeah. And so the VC—who we're still friends with, her G—like, he kind of came up to me and he explicitly said, "Oh, I have this brilliant CTO, and he says he wants to come to China. I'm not sure how serious he is, so don't put all your eggs in this basket." But then we started talking that summer, and you weren't traveling in the country, so you were in a different place every... Another advantage of us both being jobless at the time is that we got in a car and started just driving around the country. And I remember... You know, we were kind of talking over the summer, and I was seeing how serious you were about coming. And at one point you said, "OK, look—if you can get my kids into a Chinese school in Beijing, I will come and take the job to Beijing." And I went to the school that my kids went to—which, and said, "Can you make space for two foreign kids in this international program?" They said yes, if you can—but the kids have to be here the first day of school. And the first day of school was two weeks from that conversation. So I called him up and said, "Look, I can do it. I can guarantee a place for them, but you have to be here on this day."

**[16:14] SPEAKER_01:** And to my shock, he actually said yes. And he talked to his house—and like everything in the house... I think we had 12 days to be in school, and we probably had to have the house back within less than a week. So that was a crazy week. But Victor was a great help. We were going to a country we'd never been to before, didn't know much about. Victor had also moved to Asia a few years earlier, so he had scoped out everything. He knew where the good schools were, where the good apartment buildings were, helped us out just tremendously. So yeah, it was a great experience. It was an exciting time to be in China—right around the first Olympics.

**[17:02] SPEAKER_00:** Like, it was right around the Beijing Olympics, so it's a really exciting time. But yeah, you wound up staying for about 18 months, right? In total, a little less, but over a year. And then we just kept in touch from there. We loved working together. What year did you arrive? What was this rough time? Who are you asking? Because it was different. Uh, you, Jim?

**[17:26] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, 2011. Summer 2011. We're driving all over the country. September 2011. August—I can't remember. We were in Beijing. Gotcha. Very cool. And then you're back end of 2012 or early 2013, something like that. Yeah, we were back in the country in 2013, January.

**[17:56] SPEAKER_04:** Let me segue. I'll try to keep it slightly chronological to keep everything in my mind here consistent. So I was in grad school at Berkeley between 2012 and really 2015. I got to start working on Ethereum kind of purely by accident—maybe not purely by accident, but basically... I had passed my qualifying exam, I'm going to say spring 2014 or maybe April or May 2014. So for those who aren't aware of how a PhD program works, qualifying exam is like one of the last things you need to do before you just do the research and produce the thesis. Sometimes it's a coursework requirement. Sometimes you need to translate an academic work from one language to another to show proficiency. I think most of them have dropped those requirements at this point. And so it's a whole bunch of study, tense prep. At Berkeley, it's a three-hour oral exam with a couple of people from your department and one from an external department. And then they give you a pass or not. I got a pass. Thankfully. It was... I don't know that it was. Everyone feels bad after their qualifying exam except the people who are really good. And while I passed it, it was like I didn't feel great the rest of that day. But when do you find out the result? Like immediately? Oh, you do? Okay, they put you in the hall and they tell you.

**[19:38] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, okay. That's good. So you're just like very nervous. I don't know what it was like for you, but for me it was just like three guys I knew, and I was nervous too. But it wasn't like they had to go and calculate numbers or something. They just kind of come out and they're like, "Yeah, yeah."

**[19:58] SPEAKER_04:** Exactly. It's oral. It's subjective in a sense, but you've got several of the world's foremost experts in some subjects, so they're able to assess whether you understand it enough or not to proceed with research. So anyway, the qualifying exam led to—I needed a short break from math. I was in mathematical physics. And I had almost taken a job working for a data science company that was taking something having to do with Nielsen TV ratings and doing something with the data and maybe selling it back to networks. I can't remember at this time. But it seemed like an okay thing. I also wanted to go back to New York for the summer. I'm from New York. And as with many New Yorkers, it took some time to adapt to the California culture, and I didn't fully do it. I'm prone sometimes to bash the Bay Area, but I still kind of like it there. Yes, Jim's there. I'm in the state of New York at the moment. But I needed a little break basically, and it ended up being possible to work on the Ethereum project. So somehow, my dad Joe Lubin got attached to the project basically because he was always tracking Bitcoin blockchain for a long time. He had a CS background plus the financial background and ran a hedge fund for a number of years. So he was just always watching technological innovations in financial services. And he always had a little bit of the blockchain philosophical character—pro-freedom, a little bit of a libertarian streak. And I believe he happened to just be visiting our families. He's from Toronto. A lot of blockchain people in Toronto for one reason or another. And he went—I believe to a Bitcoin meetup at that time, or it might have been the first Ethereum meetup. But this would have been January, February 2014, I believe. And Vitalik was speaking there. And like everyone around that time, when you see Vitalik speak about something, you got really excited. And so he actually got ready to start helping out the project right away. He actually thought for a time that he might be a software developer for the project. And it didn't turn out that way. We can go into it a little bit later. But he started working on it again, let's say February, March 2014. And so he just sent me the white paper like right after—maybe right before—my qualifying exam. I got a chance to read it. It was pretty cool and interesting and new, and that was sort of the first time I grasped the potential of technology. And it caused me to go back and read the Bitcoin white paper, etc. And it was sort of exciting enough to work on for that summer basically. So that's how I got into it. And subsequently, Jim alluded to this earlier, I started to work with the project and reached out to Steve Hsu, a great friend of ours—kind of not quite famously brilliant, definitely brilliant, somewhat famous. Super cool guy. And I've been a long-time reader of Steve's blog. He's one of the few really excellent general communicators who's a super technical guy. Most people who are really technical have a hard time distilling it for a mass market audience. But Steve is actually good at that, with nuanced coverage of technical topics. Anyway, caught up with Steve, and that takes us to Steve forwarding on the Ethereum white paper to Jim. And I believe the first time I spoke to Steve, I was in New York but was just about to go back to the Bay Area. So that takes us to maybe June, July 2014. And maybe I came back in August or something like that. And it turned out that Jim was there in Hayward, and we got to meet up.

**[24:58] SPEAKER_01:** What do you really think—August 2014, September? Something like that. Oh, it was around then because... Also, ironically, I was driving across the country that summer too. And it was right after I came back. That's all your big life changes are related to some cross-country—you do soul searching, you do a literal search. Well, I was in Montana, and then I was back in the Bay Area, and then we talked.

**[25:27] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, okay. That's cool. How was Montana by the way? Wow, maybe we shouldn't go... Yeah, Montana oddly crypto-friendly. Yeah, makes sense—big sky country. Right, that's my country. Okay, so let me see here. I want to... I have a couple other 2014 anecdotes that you guys may not even know that much about, but maybe we should jump ahead.

**[25:56] SPEAKER_00:** To 2015 and go back. So just before we go past 2014... I moved back from China in 2014. And so me and Jim were talking about, "Oh, now that I was back, what kind of project could we do together?" So while you had started that conversation, me and Jim were like thinking about, "Okay, maybe we could work on a startup together." And at some point you forwarded me the paper as well. So that's how I got into it as well.

**[26:31] SPEAKER_04:** I want to give—yeah, I don't want to speak the whole time, but I have some info here that I forget if I told you guys at length. Okay, go for it. In 2014, so basically, I did work on the Ethereum project through a bunch of 2014 projects. As far as tech projects go, it was much more global—a little more European—but you had Canada, you had a bunch of people in Zug, Switzerland, a little bit in Israel in the early days. We worked out of an office—my dad and I—and a guy named Stephen Narayoff, who is now kind of famous. Actually, if you Google the name, it's definitely an interesting and colorful story that I'll go into a little bit. And a guy named Jonathan, whose last name I couldn't find when I was writing this down. But Jonathan's a good guy. And I don't know if they parted ways at some point or how that all happened. So we're working in this office in Times Square, and really trying to find different ways to advance the project, meeting with lots of people. So that's when I met Steve Hsu, who introduced me to Jim—basically just calling up whoever might be interested. But part of the plans that the Ethereum folks had was they acknowledged that there would be a need for kind of ongoing pure research, and then in addition to more focused R&D to build the network out. And so Vitalik at some point penned an article about 10 hard problems in cryptocurrency or something of that nature. And I think if we went back now, it would look both very insightful and a little bit dated. I'm sure some of them have been solved, and some of them may not need to be solved because something else emerged. It basically foresaw the need for privacy above and beyond pseudonymity, for instance, or many things with that transition from proof of work to proof of stake, or just like energy-efficient blockchains, which people were talking about at that time. My position in academia at that time seemed to be helpful as the blockchain people were just so different from the academia people, despite both of them being really smart groups of people. Blockchain people were not worried about doing things through the proper channels and approval and writing it up the right way and all that sort of thing. Whereas something about academia makes you fearful of being wrong because if you're wrong enough in public, there are consequences for it. And the tech attitude in general is like, get something out there—get it to work, basically—but get it out and then iterate. And blockchain people had that in the extreme. And I would say Ethereum was much more like that than the Bitcoin culture. The Bitcoin culture was like a bunch of practicing but academic cryptographers who never wanted to change anything. And the Ethereum people were more like the software and computer science engineering attitude of, "Well, let's get out there, let's tinker with it, let's see what happens." And there were good arguments for both, especially when we're talking about a system that custodies high-value ownership interests and allows them to be transferred. But all that is to say, it was useful for the Ethereum Foundation to have someone who was actively in academia to kind of work with and coordinate everything. So we agreed to work on a body called the Cryptocurrency Research Group. And that was composed of myself, Vitalik, and our friend Aaron Wright. He's since gone on to a number of Web3 projects, but at the time was practicing attorney but also a professor at Cardozo Law School. And he came to that Times Square office—which was not the greatest of offices, I would say—and just really leaned in on Ethereum and helped structure everything so that it would be the most robust—not just technology, but they actually did quite a good job in figuring out how to set things up. Other projects since certainly did not do as good a job. So it was funny times. And in 2014, I also got to go to Zug. For those who don't know, the Ethereum Foundation was one of the first to be headquartered in Switzerland. And it's become a very popular choice for crypto foundations because the Ethereum Foundation sort of blazed a path. And okay, funny thing about Switzerland is that the local authorities also just seem like business people—they want to land future tax revenue and employment. So you can kind of go from canton to canton and try to get the best offer, and offer really means tax treatment, any kind of grants, or just fast answers around legal questions. One of the tough things about the United States is that sometimes you don't know what's allowed. The Swiss environment was fairly clear about what they wanted for special tax treatment, etc. So we went out and visited Zug—I don't know, mid to late summer 2014—and I got to meet all of the founders of Ethereum at that time. I believe they were kind of eight in total. And so I think those numbers changed over time. But yeah, Vitalik—there was always a global project. Vitalik would go around the world and evangelize, get people excited, and they would want to work with the project. And so a bunch of folks got attached to it. And obviously it worked. But if he were to do it again, I bet he would be a little bit more careful about adding folks to it because eight is just too many. If you went to a US venture capitalist with a slide that says eight co-founders and they're not all currently running billion-dollar companies, you'd be laughed out of the room. And yet it worked. It actually functioned. And the way it broke apart was that there were the technical guys. So I don't quite know how this happened, but pretty early on, Gavin Wood, Jeff Wilcke started building out versions of Ethereum—the C++ and Go clients specifically. We'll go into the clients soon—there's good stories there. Alex Beregszaszi was building the Python client. They were all working together on technical documentation. And the reason that people were building multiple clients was that there was the perception that Bitcoin was controlled and centralized because there's only really one definitive client, Bitcoin Core. So there was this huge replication of technical effort. Each of them eventually got their own teams. There were JavaScript clients. Many of them came out later. And I'd say the project had tech folks and business folks, like any tech project. It didn't really have a nominal CEO at any time. It was closest to being Charles Hoskinson. So I think at the time I went to Zug, the leadership looked like: on the business side, Charles is the CEO. Amir Chetrit, who is in Israel, kind of did business development. He's a funny guy. I still see him every once in a while. Joe, my dad, and Anthony Di Iorio as the other business guys who probably had the most operating experience. And then the tech side was Vitalik, Jeff, Gavin. And then Mihai Alisie had sort of done corporate setup. I believe Mihai worked with Vitalik on Bitcoin Magazine. Vitalik is a very interesting character—most of the time your technical geniuses are not good communicators, but he was sort of a journalist running Bitcoin Magazine, writing a lot of the articles. Good if he started it or kind of joined it. And he would crowdfund the articles a little bit—like, "If I can get a pledge of one Bitcoin, I'll write an article about X." And at the time, Bitcoin was inexpensive, but those values went up, and it actually ended up being a good funding mechanism. The articles he wrote in the future led him to have a sort of impartial thought leader position in addition to his really strong technical ability and the ideas he was generating. And I know he had joined a bunch of projects early on and helped work with them—like I think Mastercoin was maybe the first colored coin project. He did some work on that. So those were the eight at the time. And there was a meeting for everyone to get on the same page. Remote project, there was a Slack. People were maybe working a little bit at cross purposes, lots of infighting, people stressed, trying to deliver on this awesome concept that Vitalik put out there. And then everyone kind of tried to grab ownership—like, was there a reason to have all these different clients? In the end, empirically it worked, but a little bit of it was an "I want Ethereum to be mine" sort of thing. And I saw this in the room when we were visiting there. So basically, it was quite dramatic—the trip. So on this trip, everyone went outside at some point, and people were a little bit sick. The tech people were sick of what the business people were doing to some extent. There's always this tension, especially early in a company, where the tech people are like, "What do I need you business guy for? We're going to make this thing and it's going to get out there." And the business people have to go raise the money, find sales, find partnerships, etc. It's subjective stuff that the tech people don't like or sometimes understand. More or less this happened. People were uncomfortable with promises that Charles was making. And just the accusations—I don't really even know what was going on at that time. But there was this general sense of frustration with them. He also seemed to be in some ways executing well on an effective smart business strategy, but maybe over-promising what's possible to the point of breaking people out. And then we kind of saw later—I think some of the stuff with Cardano was probably at least aggressive, I would say. But the jury was not out at that time in my eyes. And Amir also was targeted because I think people just thought he wasn't doing enough. And so they were both jettisoned from the project in Zug. You know, and I was like—they were out on the terrace. It's like, they had a nice sort of loft that they rented. That was the Ethereum dev house in Zug. And so I'm watching this happen. It was quite crazy. And then actually they instated two more co-founders, so to speak, right then, who kind of jumped on board the project and helped out. It was a fun and kind of crazy trip. Otherwise, we went out in Zurich. Some people got in trouble with the cops. I won't add more detail to that. But Zurich's a funny place where in the US, we're not used to people drinking on the street. In Zurich, everyone drinks on the street and few people are in the bar. It was a strange experience. We went on some hikes. It's a very nice part of the world, Switzerland. But plenty of drama in the early days. I remember having a funny conversation with Mihai about—he had this book about swarm behavior. And I had a mathematical background. We're talking about the mathematics of swarms and all that sort of thing. But it felt nascent, intense, but disorganized. They were also grappling with the decision: initially they wanted to have a nonprofit protocol and a for-profit they called it "Crypto Google" at the time to sort of monetize the nonprofit protocol. Plenty of blockchain companies have gone and done that sort of thing subsequently. But that was also decided at that meeting—that they would be all nonprofit. And people didn't like it. Some folks started talking about brain drain. It was a mix—some people liked it, some didn't. The threat being like, "If you don't do this for profit, I'm going to leave this project." And I think about everyone sort of went off and did start their own businesses.

**[42:30] SPEAKER_00:** So you know, it is what it is. But anyways, let me pause and see if I told this whole story to you guys at any point. I think you told parts of it, not the entire thing. But yes, I didn't realize the sort of Game of Thrones aspect happened in all of that period—short period of time.

**[42:53] SPEAKER_04:** You know, I knew that all that had happened behind the scenes. I think it was all going on continually, but it came to a head all in this one meeting. A funny memory: so Bitcoin Suisse was getting off the ground at that time, and we met with a guy named Nicholas—I believe he was the CEO or one of the founders. They just Googled it—says founder, and there's a different CEO now. But he made this funny comment. We were in an elevator—this shows the difference between the American and Swiss attitude. We're in an elevator, and it's one of those hand-operated ones where you do it yourself, and the door could easily close on you. And I was like, "Wow, we'd never have this in the US because we're so litigious." And they said, "Well, yeah—Swiss attitude: natural selection." So anyways, I know sometimes things get grandfathered in—like some of those subway platforms in New York are pretty terrifying too. They are certainly. Yeah, it could just be that it's older there. That makes sense. But yeah, so I think the big thing other than Zug... Basically, what we saw—or let me say, there was growing momentum around the project. Lots of people all over the world kind of working on it. Stuff was probably not tightly papered. There's no