**[00:03] SPEAKER_00:** Okay, I think we are live. Let's just give a minute for people to join. All right. So I looked at the background noise reduction. It says not supported in this browser. I'm using Firefox. Perhaps it has to be Chrome.

**[00:33] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. You must pick from the two available choices. Safari has a huge market share just because of the iPhone. Is it still called Edge? Yes. Nobody uses Edge. I bet you it's a lot though. I seem to remember seeing, and I can't remember if it was on Edge or Bing or probably both, but the most searched thing was how to install Chrome. That's funny. Chrome continues to rise in market share. It's gone from 66% roughly about a year ago to 72% now worldwide. Safari is trending down. Opera is still around. That's amazing. They all use Chromium though. My son uses Opera. Okay. We are live now on Twitter. Should we wait another minute or should we just start? That's a good question. We can ease into the substance of the content. Do we have any minute-long non sequiturs? Maybe we should do our intros because we could do the intros.

**[02:21] SPEAKER_02:** Hi, everyone. Welcome to our weekly show. If you don't know, we are all part of the Strato Mercato project, a layer one EVM compatible blockchain focused on bringing DeFi to the masses. The three of us here are all longtime builders and Ethereum OGs. I'm Victor Wong. Vic, I don't know if you can describe yourself as an OG. Someone else has to bestow that. Exactly. Okay, you two are OGs. Can we say it to each other? You are an OG. I said that as a collective. In a circle. Bob's an OG. Bob can tell me. I can tell you. We've been building since the launch of Ethereum and continue to follow this journey. You'll get, hopefully, no shilling and a lot of good historical context about what we're going to talk about today. Today we are going to talk about the highlights from Token 2049. Was it more boring or more crazy in terms of the blockchain world? Joining me is Bob Summerwell. Bob, you want to do a quick intro?

**[04:03] SPEAKER_02:** Hi there, I'm Bob Summerwell. We are all very experienced. I'm head of ecosystem. And Karen, of course. I am also experienced, not as long as you can be in the space, but it's starting to feel like it. I will bestow the OG title on you, Karen. Anyone that's been around since before the launch of Ethereum and was part of it can claim that title. I was not in Singapore. I kind of played hooky with Karen's approval. International travel is brutal. But Bob and Karen were there. What do you think the big themes this year were at Token 2049?

**[04:58] SPEAKER_01:** Bunch of big topics. One thing that was notable is that it felt like meme coins had almost completely vanished. Last year there was a lot of that. Can I pour one out for the meme coins? I'm actually kind of pro-meme coin. The problem is just the time horizon. People want to make money in seconds. A meme around a concept, if it can grow organically for some period of time, is great. The impatience and nihilism seem to increase with each cycle. But maybe not this one. The conference felt less scammy in general and a lot of digital asset treasury talk. A lot of stablecoin talk. Merger with TradFi sort of feel. I also think something has changed. A year ago, it felt like crypto was sort of peripheral to the problems with the world. Now it feels like it's a big part of the solution. Everyone acknowledged that. Donald Trump Jr. was there. Putin made comments about how the United States was trying to use stablecoins to export American inflation, which is probably true. But it's a big turnaround. It's from the top policy as opposed to just periphery.

**[07:03] SPEAKER_00:** That wasn't new on the Bitcoin conference side. I was in Nashville in 2014 and Vegas. In Nashville last year, you had Trump Jr. This year you had both Trump boys, Eric and Donald Jr. were both there. Tons of other congress people and state level stuff. That's been a real theme in advance on the Bitcoin side because you've got the monetary store of value use case. Getting into these boring ETF, treasury company, government level adoption sort of stuff has happened earlier on the Bitcoin side than more generally. The Trumps have got their world liberty nonsense going on and got to be pumping that one.

**[08:28] SPEAKER_02:** Internally, we were trying to decide whether the conference was more boring or more crazy than usual. You kind of have talked about the boring elements, more institutional. I'm curious, since this is in Singapore, a very global conference, what countries outside the U.S. seem to be moving in this direction? Obviously, the U.S. has been a holdout for a really long time. How are things getting boring and how are things getting more global? Bob, I want to remind you not to criticize our friends in Washington, at least in a public forum.

**[09:18] SPEAKER_01:** It's an interesting feel, the conference. It obviously represented people who were close by pretty well, but also a good number of people from UAE, some from Europe, plenty of Americans who did the really long trip. Lots of Americans. The institutional feeling was much stronger than the prior year. It's not that much time to have passed. Stablecoins have this institutional feel to them. It's funny to watch Tether coming to the U.S. and setting up a regulatory framework. I went to a side event and met some of the Tether people. It's also funny to see them in the media buying sports teams. At a certain point, you get big enough, you become institutional. Last year it felt like blockchain technology at the lower levels of the stack disproportionately gets created in the broader West, and maybe gets used outside the West more. You see stablecoin balances are big in the U.S., but it's kind of really a global story. Tether in particular is much larger than Circle. Tether purports not to serve the U.S., I'm sure there's plenty of USDT holders. Circle probably preferences the U.S. but covers global as well. It's a funny feeling in which the people at the conference are a little more like users than builders. The feel of Token is a little like Comic-Con. People in funny outfits. The world's tallest man was there, sadly in a wheelchair. He has to be in a wheelchair so he doesn't bump his head on every doorframe. The mix is definitely a big global conference. They usually get about 20,000 people coming from hubs. Again, a lot of UAE, some European hubs, and a big U.S. contingent. It was great. Singapore is a great place to hang out. The representation of the global scene was good. The same people were manning the booths last year to this year. It's a very expensive conference, but the companies have in many cases changed, except for the very big ones, the headliners, people get invited to the stage, etc. A lot of turnover in who was represented at the conference. Being a media company is one of the better ways to survive cycles in crypto.

**[13:26] SPEAKER_02:** Those fees are getting bigger and bigger too, right? It's very expensive. Bob, what do you think about the global and the boring part of it?

**[13:56] SPEAKER_00:** I've been to a lot of conferences. I've never seen somewhere with so much floor space of expo halls, just on and on. Honestly, like city blocks, many city blocks worth of stuff. You go, all right, there's another whole floor of this. Even bigger than DevCon in Thailand last year. DevCon was a large floor area, but it was lots of different rooms of talks and then little stalls. Whereas this is just an expo hall of selling, I don't know what, most of them were thousands of projects you've never heard of doing something indistinguishable from everybody else. Talking about the turnover, Karen, I'm sure that's the case. The vast majority of them are going to be gone in a year's time and never even know they happened.

**[15:16] SPEAKER_02:** So do you guys think the boringness comes from institutions themselves or what they're doing? Because everyone seems to be doing stablecoins or treasury companies.

**[15:37] SPEAKER_01:** Meme coins ended to some degree with the U.S. elections. Libra was really the end, where a coin associated with a public official did pretty badly for the people involved. They've kind of peaked. It seems like funds are still doing lots of launches, but no one's really talking that much about it anymore. Suddenly it all became about revenue, U.S. dollar denominated yields, how to do not quite a SPAC. Most of these treasury companies are an existing publicly traded company. There's maybe not a formal takeover with a change of control, but usually an injection of capital that the company is doing something else right now, and then it starts digital asset treasury operations. Michael Saylor pioneered some of the financial engineering that creatively let him acquire as much Bitcoin as possible. He wasn't there. All these folks are in the TradFi mindset. People make complicated products that favor the house. No matter what, the client has an idea, but the institution does okay. People are purchasing, a lot of the time you would just want to hold tokens directly as opposed to invest in digital asset treasuries. The digital asset treasuries may be better than ETFs. The ETFs promise to do nothing and charge a fee where the digital asset treasuries don't really charge a fee and maybe do something creative. It's the entrance of a new venue of financial engineering. It's a great way to bring in more bigger, more boring, more conservative capital while not changing the premise that much. The suits are good at that. Digital asset treasuries provide a good wrapper for the thing that most of us would hold as spot.

**[20:43] SPEAKER_02:** By the way, we have a comment from Shiva who says he loves your take on meme ecosystems. Not surprisingly, someone who has their own meme ecosystem. You got to hold all the memes. That's the key. Shout out to you, Shiva. Bob, what do you think about treasuries and stablecoins?

**[21:04] SPEAKER_00:** This is all sort of maturity. Looking back on all of our joint experience on enterprise Ethereum efforts kicking off in 2016, 2017, the thought was that all these public and private use cases could be met by suitably modular codebases and thinking EVMs. Now, Stripe is announcing Tempo and having a consortium of companies doing payments. NASDAQ is announcing equities on-chain again with a Bazoo derivative. BASE and Coinbase are doing things. All these things are happening in a very similar form to what we were shooting for back then. While these things are kind of boring, it's also amazing that we've gotten to that place where these very conservative incumbents have caught up.

**[22:58] SPEAKER_01:** At a time, much of the space was extremely eager for institutional approval, even with some nominal hostility to it. Now I feel almost like I don't want it. I want it to go back. I'm happy about the asset values, although it's not my primary motivation. The Web2 world, while the internet remains at least kind of open, uses like six apps. It feels like it could easily happen that way in crypto. Crypto remains totally open, but the Coinbase account we have is way more difficult and onerous than any bank I've dealt with. They try to introduce a whitelist for accounts. You could turn this off for protection in case someone's gotten in there. They're worse than what they set out to destroy from an "is it our money" perspective. The Genius Act passed, but it has that feel too. Coinbase is in a fight with banks now.

**[25:21] SPEAKER_00:** Coinbase gets leaned on more than banks. They're in this new energy area. Borders never move on the bank side. On a crypto exchange side, it's kind of both. They're always going to be moving around and they're always going to get leaned on.

**[25:47] SPEAKER_01:** Fintechs are generally leaner, probably a little faster on things than banks. It feels like they're overzealous in terms of compliance posture because they feel they can get kicked around. Banks are less worried. Banks have been leaned on to write in very much the same way, but it seems like a slower and less aggressive process somehow.

**[26:09] SPEAKER_00:** Banks are generally not trying to do new things. Fintechs are moving around. We've got to be on good behavior, get the brownie points.

**[26:37] SPEAKER_02:** Banks are very rarely doing anything new and different. They don't worry so much. Regulation was like the lid on the bucket. The minute you move that lid, the real demand we're seeing now is what always existed, but it's just been held back for a long time.

**[27:04] SPEAKER_01:** The Circle IPO was crazy. It showed how much pent up demand is out there if this is even slightly allowed. Treasury companies are similar. While we're getting to that point, how do you think things are getting crazier than last year? Things are happening fast. The turnover is still huge in the space. There are still lots of good new projects that come out of nowhere and are successful. I'm friends socially with the CEO of Lighter. He told me about it a year and a half ago. I read the paper. It's huge now. The DEX wars are heating up. The pace at which things can happen seems to be accelerating. Talking to a friend who's kind of investor, kind of runs an incubator, he said he's done better not thinking about it as a four-year cycle anymore because they're compressing. Mini cycles within the cycle. Token was very much like a booth babe conference. More of them than last year. Does this mean we're near the top? People were feeling pretty good. I like a conference when people are feeling a little shitty because there's room for things to run. For better or worse, interest in the industry as a whole trends upwards with prices. It's good for prices to go up. Digital asset treasuries are evidence that it's late cycle. Stuff is happening really quickly. Products mostly work in crypto now. DeFi just worked. Only kind of worked through 2021, 2022, maybe 2023. It just functions and it's big. Every week I see people tweet about how big it would be compared to U.S. banks. It's 47, 43, 36. There's a feeling of inevitability that kicked in a couple months ago. Bob, what did you find on the craziness level?

**[31:19] SPEAKER_00:** I didn't see any booth babes. I saw lots of people in costumes, mascots. Something else I was thinking, which is good talking about top signals, there wasn't an excess of Ripple representation. That's always a good top sign. If there's lots of interest in XRP, that signals new entries into the market.

**[32:03] SPEAKER_01:** It used to be a joke that when your dentist or realtor friend asks about Cardano or Ripple, it's time to sell. There was plenty of Charles, but no Ripple. BNB flipped XRP recently. Up to number three. Amazing. How are you guys feeling about having been in the space for so long that long-term projects like MetaMask are now launching a token? This is another part of the crazy. A lot was held back by uncertainty. During the Gensler era, it felt like the eye of Sauron was on the good projects and the bad projects were left to run. Most tokens are bad. If you market cap weight, the things near the top are pretty high quality. Things come out of the bottom and go into the top. By and large, you should forget about that long tail of things. The eye was on the big things, trying to destroy them before there was a token or freeze them. Bad stuff was left to run amok, contributing to the impression that the space was all scams. The average project might be a scam or not worth any value. The big ones are good most of the time, not all of them, and they're being allowed out.

**[34:59] SPEAKER_02:** Circle IPO, MetaMask token. They probably should have had one a long time ago. They haven't used it for a long time. They probably wanted a token. The height of this for me was when the SEC filed charges against Binance and Coinbase in the same week. They looked at something with "exchange" in it and went after that.

**[35:28] SPEAKER_00:** The other thing was the good actors who were getting legal action. They stayed onshore and tried to work through it to get to a resolution. The bad actors just left. So the good actors were the ones that got whacked because they stayed around to get whacked and kept coming back for more whacking until it ceased.

**[36:17] SPEAKER_02:** Another crazy thing is we're going to have masses of ICOs coming up. On that, we've crossed the 30-minute mark. Do you have any closing thoughts about Token 2049 or where we're at in the overall blockchain state?

**[36:38] SPEAKER_01:** One thing I would say, food is excellent in Singapore. There was a hawker market in the conference. It was very cool. I'm pretty optimistic. These are good times. A lot of work ahead. It feels like it was a good marker of some tipping point. The institutional buy-in is at a point where I think they won't roll it back like last time. Customers are demanding it. People who said they'd never custody crypto just stood it up quickly. It's probably too intermingled now to remove. Completing the product is strange. Retail was in for a while and maybe got burned, culminating with FTX. It probably hasn't come back much. Institutions are in now, meaning retail will eventually come back. We cannot burn retail again. It has to be better than whatever service it's displacing, banking, FX exchanges, whatever. Making sure people don't lose the keys. There's a needle right there. The next phase is going to be a lot about that. Bob, what do you think?

**[39:01] SPEAKER_00:** For a lot of retail, they're not going to have their hands on directly. It'll be through instruments. Their experience is just having a brokerage account with those in it indistinguishable from commodities or equities or bonds. Speculative retail crypto as investment people. What's more interesting to watch is the payments side, especially with the Stripe project. If payment flows can use crypto rather than fiat, that's interesting. Real velocity of non-speculative use could start. Everything has pretty much been speculation or a little bit of payments but not large volume. Early on it was buying coffee with Bitcoin. That didn't last long and hasn't come back. With stablecoins and large integrations like PayPal and MasterCard announcing stuff, all these payment rails are joining the game. That really changes things.

**[40:42] SPEAKER_02:** Are we going to DevConnect? I know me and Bob have already bought our tickets. Karen, can I get a commitment? I've never been to Argentina. I really want to go. I want to see what's going on in South America. Obviously, there are big exchanges and projects there. Vitalik said he's more likely to get recognized in Buenos Aires than in the U.S. If you like this content, join us every week at the same time. Follow us on Twitter at straddlemercada with an A and join our Telegram community. Bob, if people want to hear more from you, where can they find you? Bob Summerwill on Twitter. Kieran, where can people find you? Kieran James-Lubin on Twitter. Vic Wong on Twitter. Bob and Karen shamed me publicly because I have so few followers even though I was an early adopter. Please connect with me. Four is a number that no Chinese person likes because it sounds like death. It's always in my username. Always doing things the Wong way. Thank you, everyone. See you again next week. Take care. Cheers, guys.